A Brief Practice of Paying Homage and Making Offerings to the Sixteen Elders
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
What follows is a brief liturgy for a practice connected with the homage and offering to the
elders that is said to have been composed by the great Paṇḍita Śākyaśrī:
Refuge and Bodhicitta
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly,
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jinsok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings!
Repeat this verse three times
semchen tamché dewa dang dewé gyu dang denpar gyur chik
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness and the causes of happiness!
dukngal dang dukngal gyi gyu dang dralwar gyur chik
May they be free from suffering and the causes of suffering!
dukngal mepé dewa dang mindralwar gyur chik
May they never be separated from the sacred happiness devoid of suffering!
nyering chakdang nyi dang dralwé tang nyom tsemepa la nepar gyur chik
And may they dwell in boundless equanimity that is free from attachment and aversion!
Visualizing the Pure Realm
kyabné könchok sum gyi denpa dang
By the truth of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha, the objects of refuge,
gyalwa sé ché nam kyi jinlab dang
The blessings of all the victorious ones and their bodhisattva heirs,
tsok nyi ngatang chöying dak tob kyi
The power of the two accumulations and the purity and strength of the dharmadhātu,
nöchü dechen shying gi köpé ü
May the outer environment and its inhabitants become those of the blissful paradise of Sukhāvatī,
with, in its centre,
yitrok norbü shyalmé khang chenpor
A great celestial palace of precious gems, stunning to behold,
rinchen sengtri pé dé den chok dang
Inside which is a jewelled lion throne with lotus and moon-disc seats—
ngö sham zung rik mö tob kyi trulpé
Here and now, may I experience this pure realm filled with clouds of actual offerings,
chötrin gyatsö gang shying chö gyur chik
And those created through the power of mantras, awareness and aspiration!
namo ratna trayaya | namo | bhagavate vajra sara pramardhane tathagataya arhate samyak sambuddhaya
| tadyata | om vajre vajre maha vajre maha tedzo vajre maha vidya vajre maha bodhitsitta
vajre maha bodhi mantopasam kramana vajre sarwa karma awarana vishva dhana vajre soha
namo ratna trayāya | namo | bhagavate vajrasārapramardane tathāgatāyārhate samyaksaṃbhuddhāya
| tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahāvajre mahātejavajre mahāyidyāvajre mahābodhicittavajre mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre
sarvakarmāvaraṇaviśodhanavajre svāhā |
Recite this offering cloud mantra three times, accompanied by musical instruments.
Light some incense and chant the following:
Invocation
laktil tar nyam rinchen gyi trepa
The ground is smooth like the palm of the hand, and bedecked with jewels.
jönshing chu tsö gyenpé sashyi ü
It is adorned with wish-granting trees, rivers and lakes. In its centre,
rinchen lé drub dru shyi go shyipa
In the jewelled palace with its four sides and four doors,
pema nyidé gyenpé den tengdu
Upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
tukjé tsöpé dü kyi dulja nam
Is the compassionate protector of beings, the one who sets
namdrol lam la gödzé drowé gön
The beings of these troubled times on the path to liberation,
tubpa chok dang neten chenpo nam
The supreme Śākyamuni together with the great sthaviras—
khor dang chepa né dir shek su sol
Come now to this place together with your retinues, we pray!

chok chü gyalwa sé ché tamché dang
All the Victorious Ones of the ten directions and their heirs,
sherab mebar nyönmong tso kem shying
The wisdom fire that dries the ocean of destructive emotions,
namdrol sönam shying du kadö pa
And those who abide by the Buddha's words in the field with the merit of complete liberation,
chok chü nyentö gendün shyuk so tsal
The shravaka sangha of the ten directions—all of you please come to this place!
yön jong chöpé né su chendren kyi
With these offerings we invite you to stay here,
drowé dönchir chö kyi shek su sol
For sentient beings, let these offerings lead you to this place.
drowé gönpo shakya sengé yi
The protector of wandering beings, the Lion of the Śakyas
sangye tenpa gang gi chak tu shyak
Buddha teachings that you hold in your hands,
sung rab rinchen drom gyi kha jepé
Those who open up the treasury of excellent discourses—
chökyong drachom chenpo shyuk so tsal
Guardians of the dharma, great arhats, please stay here, we pray!
damchö pelwé ledu chendren kyi
As we invite you to spread the holy Dharma,
drowé dönchir chö kyi shek su sol
For sentient beings, let these offerings lead you to this place!

tubpé kagö tenpé gyaltsen dzin
You who were instructed by the Buddha to uphold the victory banner of the teachings:
yenlakjung dang mapam naknané
Aṅgaja, Ajita and Vanavāsin,
düden dorjé mobu zangpo dang
Kālika, Vajrīputra and Śrībhadra,
serbé'u bharadhaja serchen chok
Kanakavatsa and sublime Kanakabhāradvāja,
pakpa bakula dang drachen dzin
Noble Bakula and Rāhula,
lamtren bharadhaja sönyom len
Kṣudrapanthaka and Piṇḍola Bhāradvāja,
lamten lüdé bejé michepa
Panthaka, Nāgasena, Gopaka and Abhedya:
drachom neten chenpo dé dak ni
O arhats, great elders,
sonam rinchen ling du chendren gyi
Through this invitation to this precious place of merit,
drowé dönchir chö kyi shek su sol
For sentient beings, let these offerings lead you to this place!
pang dang yeshé puntsok sangye kyang
You are buddhas with perfect renunciation and wisdom,
duljé wang gi nyentö tsul dzinpa
Yet to guide beings you appear in śrāvaka form.
khyepar chen gyi trinlé chökyong wé
You whose special activity is to protect the Dharma,
neten chu druk dir jön den la shyuk
Sixteen elders, come now and take your places!
deshek ka lung tsor dzé tenpa sung
You guard the teachings, especially the words of the sugatas,
rang dön dor né khorwé naktsal du
And, having forsaken selfish aims, you remain in the forest of saṃsāra,
shyen dön lhur dzé neten chudruk po
And dedicate yourselves to others—O sixteen elders,
damché tukjé wang gi né dir shek
Through the force of compassion and commitment, come now to this place!
genyen kyab söl denpé tsik tenpa
As lay practitioners, who seek refuge and whose speech is honest,
könchok sum gyi shyab dring chi so tsal
Accept us, we pray, as servants of the Three Jewels!
sönam rinchen shying du chendren gyi
As we invite you to this precious, meritorious realm,
drowé dönchir chö kyi shek su sol
For sentient beings, let these offerings lead you to this place!
Perform the invitation with music.
jinyé su dak chok chü jikten na
To all the buddhas, the lions of the human race,
dü sum shekpa mi yi sengé kün
In all directions of the universe, through past and present and future:
dak gi malü dedak tamché la
To every single one of you, I bow in homage;
lü dang ngak yi dangwé chak gyi o
Devotion fills my body, speech and mind.
zangpo chöpé mönlam tob dak gi
Through the power of this prayer, aspiring to Good Action,
gyalwa tamché yi kyi ngönsum du
All the victorious ones appear, vivid here before my mind
shying gi dul nyé lü rab tüpa yi
And I multiply my body as many times as atoms in the universe,
gyalwa kün la rabtu chaktsal lo
Each one bowing in prostration to all the buddhas.
dul chik teng na dul nyé sangye nam
In every atom preside as many buddhas as there are atoms,
sangye sé kyi ü na shyukpa dak
And around them, all their bodhisattva heirs:
detar chö kyi ying nam malüpa
And so I imagine them filling
tamché gyalwa dak gi gangwar mö
Completely the entire space of reality.
dedak ngakpa mizé gyatso nam
Saluting them with an endless ocean of praise,
yang kyi yenlak gyatsö dra kün gyi
With the sounds of an ocean of different melodies
gyalwa kün gyi yönten rab jö ching
I sing of the buddhas’ noble qualities,
dewar shekpa tamché dak gi tö
And praise all those who have gone to perfect bliss.

tsungmé tawé mi ngom shing
We pay homage to the incomparable one whom we never tire of gazing upon,
sergyi dok chen dzépé ku
Whose beautiful form is the colour of gold,
shyal chik chak nyi kyiltrung shyuk
With one face, two hands and is seated in cross-legged posture,
sa nön nyam shyak dzé chak tsal
While making the gestures of touching the earth and resting in equanimity:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

gangri chen po tisé na
We pay homage to the noble elder Aṅgaja,
pakpé neten yenlak jung
Who dwells on the great snow-capped peak of Kailash,
drachom tong dang sum gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand three hundred arhats,
pö por ngayab dzin chak tsal
And holds an incense burner and fly whisk:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

drang song ri yi shel nak na
We pay homage to the noble elder Ajita,
pakpé neten mipam pa
Who dwells in the crystal forest on Sage Mountain,
drachom gya trak chik gi kor
Surrounded by a hundred arhats,
chak nyi nyam shyak dzé chak tsal
And makes the gesture of equanimity with his two hands:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

loma dünpé ri puk na
We pay homage to the noble elder Vanavāsin,
pakpe neten nak na né
Who dwells in a cave on Seven Leaf Mountain,
drachom tong dang shyi gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand four hundred arhats,
dik dzub ngayab dzin chak tsal
And holds a fly whisk while making the threatening gesture:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

dzambu ling gi zang ling na
We pay homage to the noble elder Kālika,
pakpé neten düden ni
Who dwells on Copper Island in Jambudvīpa,
drachom tong dang chik gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand one hundred arhats,
ser gyi na kor dzin chak tsal
And holds golden earrings:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

singala yi ling na ni
We pay homage to the elder Vajrīputra,
neten dorje mo yi bu
Who dwells in the land of Śrī Laṅka,
drachom chenpo tong gi kor
Surrounded by a thousand great arhats,
dik dzub ngayab dzin chak tsal
And holds a fly whisk while making the threatening gesture:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

chuwo ya mu na ling na
We pay homage to the noble elder Śrībhadra,
pakpé neten zangpo ni
Who dwells on an island in the Yamunā river,
drachom tong dang nyi gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand two hundred arhats,
chö ché nyam shyak dzé chak tsal
And makes the gestures of teaching the Dharma and equanimity:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

nechok khaché yul na ni
We pay homage to the noble elder Kanakavatsa,
pakpé neten ser be’u
Who dwells in the supreme land of Kashmir,
drachom chenpo nga gyé kor
Surrounded by five hundred great arhats,
rinchen shyakpa dzin chak tsal
And holds a jewelled chain.
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

nub kyi balang chö na ni
We pay homage to Kanakabhāradvāja,
bhara dha dza ser chen la
Who dwells on the western continent of Godānīya,
drachom chenpo dün gyé kor
Surrounded by seven hundred great arhats,
chak nyi nyam shyak dzé chak tsal
And makes the gesture of equanimity with his two hands:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

chang gi dra mi nyen na ni
We pay homage to the noble elder Bakula,
pakpé neten bakula
Who dwells on the northern continent of Uttarakuru,
drachom chenpo gü gyé kor
Surrounded by nine hundred great arhats,
chak nyi ne’u lé dzin chak tsal
And holds a mongoose with his two hands:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

tri yang ku yi ling na ni
We pay homage to the noble elder Rāhula,
pakpé neten dra chen dzin
Who dwells in the land of Priyaṅgu,
drachom tong dang chik gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand one hundred arhats,
rinchen sok shyu dzin chak tsal
And holds a jewelled crown:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

cha gö pungpö riwo la
We pay homage to the elder Kṣudrapanthaka,
pakpé neten lam tren ten
Who dwells on Vulture Peak mountain,
drachom tong dang druk gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand nine hundred arhats,
chak nyi nyam shyak dzé chak tsal
And makes the gesture of equanimity with his two hands:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

shar gyi lü pak ling na ni
We pay homage to Piṇḍolabhāradvāja,
bhara dha dza sö nyom len
Who dwells on the eastern continent of Pūrvavideha,
drachom tong trak chik gi kor
Surrounded by a thousand arhats,
lekbam lhungzé dzin chak tsal
And holds a text and alms bowl:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

lha né sum chu tsa sum na
We pay homage to the noble elder Panthaka,
pakpé neten lam ten ni
Who dwells in the heaven of Thirty Three,
drachom chenpo gu gyé kor
Surrounded by nine hundred great arhats,
chö ché lek bam dzin chak tsal
And makes the gesture of teaching the Dharma while holding a text:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

ri yi gyalpo ngö yang la
We pay homage to the noble elder Nāgasena,
pakpé neten lu yi dé
Who dwells on the slopes of Mount Meru,
drachom tong dang nyi gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand two hundred arhats,
pumpa khar sil dzin chak tsal
And holds a vase and monk’s staff:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

ri yi gyalpo behu lar
We pay homage to the noble elder Gopaka,
pakpé neten bé ché ni
Who dwells on Vihula, king of mountains,
drachom tong dang shyi gyé kor
Surrounded by one thousand four hundred arhats,
chak nyi lek bam dzin chak tsal
And holds a text in his two hands:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

ri yi gyalpo gang chen la
We pay homage to the noble elder Abhedya,
pakpé neten miché pa
Who dwells among the king-like Snowy Peaks,
drachom tong trak chik gi kor
Surrounded by a thousand arhats,
chang chub chöten dzin chak tsal
And holds an enlightenment stūpa:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

pakpé genyen dharma ta
We pay homage to the noble upasaka Dharmatāla,
ralpa tö ching lekbam khur
Whose hair is in a topknot and who carries volumes of Dharma,
nang ta dün gyi kha la zik
Who sees Amitābha in the sky before him,
nga yab pumpa dzin chak tsal
And who holds a fly-whisk and vase:
lamé kutsé tenpa dang
Grant your blessings so that the life of the teacher may be secure,
tenpa gyepar chin gyi lop
And the teachings may flourish and spread!

tsönpé go gö tu tobden
We pay homage to the four great kings,
sangyé tenpa lek sungwa
Who are mighty and wear the armour of diligence,
shar lho nub chang chok shyi yi
And who guard well the teachings of Buddha
gyalchen shyi la chak tsal lo
In the four directions: east, south, west and north!
Recite these verses three times or as many times as you can.
metok dampa trengwa dampa dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
silnyen nam dang jukpa duk chok dang
Of the loveliest flowers, of beautiful garlands,
marmé chok dang dukpö dampa yi
Of music and perfumed ointments, the best of parasols,
gyalwa dedak la ni chöpar gyi
The brightest lamps and finest incense.

naza dampa nam dang dri chok dang
To every buddha, I make offerings:
chema purma rirab nyampa dang
Exquisite garments and the most fragrant scents,
köpa khyepar pakpé chok kün gyi
Powdered incense, heaped as high as Mount Meru,
gyalwa dedak la ni chöpar gyi
Arranged in perfect symmetry.

chöpa gang nam lamé gya chewa
Then the vast and unsurpassable offerings—
dedak gyalwa tamché la yang mö
Inspired by my devotion to all the buddhas, and
zangpo chö la depé tob dak gi
Moved by the power of my faith in Good Actions—
gyalwa kün la chaktsal chöpar gyi
I prostrate and offer to all you victorious ones.
namo ratna trayaya | namo | bhagavate vajra sara pramardhane tathagataya arhate samyak sambuddhaya
| tadyata | om vajre vajre maha vajre maha tedzo vajre maha vidya vajre maha bodhitsitta
vajre maha bodhi mantopasam kramana vajre sarwa karma awarana vishva dhana vajre soha
namo ratna trayāya | namo | bhagavate vajrasārapramardane tathāgatāyārhate samyaksaṃbhuddhāya
| tadyathā | oṃ vajre vajre mahāvajre mahātejavajre mahāyidyāvajre mahābodhicittavajre mahābodhi-maṇḍopasaṃ-kramaṇa-vajre
sarvakarmāvaraṇaviśodhanavajre svāhā |
Recite this mantra together with music. Should you wish to make the practice more elaborate,
you could make a maṇḍala offering here as many times as possible.
Confession
döchak shyedang timuk wang gi ni
Whatever negative acts I have committed,
lü dang ngak dang deshyin yi kyi kyang
While driven by desire, hatred and ignorance,
dikpa dak gi gyipa chi chipa
With my body, my speech and also with my mind,
dedak tamché dak gi sosor shak
Before you, I confess and purify each and every one.
Rejoicing
chok chü gyalwa kün dang sangye sé
With a heart full of delight, I rejoice at all the merits
ranggyal nam dang lob dang mi lob dang
Of buddhas and bodhisattvas,
drowa kün gyi sönam gangla yang
Pratyekabuddhas, those in training and the arhats beyond training,
dedak kün gyi jesu dak yi rang
And every living being, throughout the entire universe.
Imploring the Buddhas to Turn the Wheel of Dharma
gang nam chok chü jikten drönma nam
You who are like beacons of light shining through the worlds,
changchub rimpar sangye machak nyé
Who passed through the stages of enlightenment, to attain buddhahood, freedom from all attachment,
gönpo dedak dak gi tamché la
I exhort you: all of you protectors,
khorlo lanamepar korwar kul
Turn the unsurpassable wheel of Dharma.
Requesting the Buddhas not to Enter Nirvāṇa
nya ngen da tön gang shyé dedak la
Joining my palms together, I pray
drowa kün la pen shying dewé chir
To you who intend to pass into nirvāṇa,
kalpa shying gi dul nyé shyukpar yang
Remain, for aeons as many as the atoms in this world,
dak gi talmo rab jar solwar gyi
And bring well-being and happiness to all living beings.
Dedication
chaktsalwa dang chö ching shakpa dang
What little virtue I have gathered through my homage,
jesu yi rang kul shying solwa yi
Through offering, confession, and rejoicing,
gewa chungzé dak gi chi sakpa
Through exhortation and prayer—all of it
tamché dak gi changchub chir ngo o
I dedicate to the enlightenment of all beings!
If you wish to make the dhāraṇī recitation more elaborate, then add the following:
tubwang khor ché tsen né bö té tukdam kulwar gyur
Calling upon the Lord of Sages and his retinue by name, I invoke your wisdom mind!
Then with one-pointed devotion recite:
teyata om muné muné maha mune shakyamunayé soha
tadyathā | oṃ mune mune mahāmune śākyamunaye svāhā ||
Recite the mantra a hundred times or as much as you can. Then recite the following:
sangye trulpa drachom pakpé tsok
Assembly of noble arhats, emanations of the buddhas,
drowé dön du tenpa kyong dzépa
Who guard the teachings for the sake of beings,
kön chok sum ngö neten chudruk gi
Sixteen elders, true embodiments of the Three Jewels,
tenpa yün ring nepar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings so that the teachings may long endure!
tukjé daknyi neten chudruk gi
Sixteen elders, embodiments of compassion,
khor tsok si tso lé gal nyön mong mé
With your retinue who have crossed the ocean of existence and have no more afflictions,
tri dang druk tong shyi gyé tsok nam kyi
Assembly of sixteen thousand four hundred arhats,
tenpa yün ring nepar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings so that the teachings may long endure!
semchen kun gyi sö gyur drachom pa
Arhats who bring good fortune to all beings,
rik dang shyap den kyé gü jin né ché
Eminent and honourable, worthy of everyone’s generosity,
pakpé gang zak chenpo khyé nam kyi
Great noble ones, ārya beings,
tenpa yün ring nepar chin gyi lop
Grant your blessings so that the teachings may long endure!

dak shen gewé tsawa di yi ni
Through the power of this source of virtue,
pen dé jungné tenpa pel gyur shing
May the teachings, source of all benefit and happiness, spread!
dukngal kun jung malü rab pang né
May all sources of suffering be entirely eradicated,
sipé gyatso nyur du kempar shok
And the ocean of existence swiftly dry up!
sonam gyatso yong su dzok jé ching
May we fully perfect oceans of merit!
yeshe gyatso nampar dak gyur né
May we purify oceans of wisdom!
mönlam gyatso malü kun dzok né
May we perfect all ocean-like aspirations,
lü chen kün lé khyepar pakpar shok
And surpass all ordinary embodied beings!

tsok nyi tar chin dü sum gyalwa yi
The one who has perfected the two accumulations
trinlé drup ching yönten namyer mé
And carries out the activity of the buddhas of the three times,
kalpa nyampé dülja min dzepa
Who is inseparable from them in qualities and brings fortunate disciples to maturity:
nyam mé lama chok gi trashi shok
May there be the auspiciousness of the lama, who is without equal!
dü sum gyalwa gyalsé tukjé yi
With the compassion of the victorious buddhas of the three times and their heirs,
nyentö tsul zung sipa ji sipar
They adopt the form of śrāvakas for as long existence continues,
tenpa kyong shying drowé dön dzepa
To protect the teachings and bring benefit to beings:
neten chenpo nam kyi trashi shok
May there be the auspiciousness of the great elders!
zab ching gya ché zikpa po
Those whose vision is profound and extensive,
yul khor sung dang pak kyé po
Dhṛtarāṣṭra, Virūḍhaka,
chen mi zang dang nam tö sé
Virūpakṣa and Vaiśravaṇa:
gyal chen shyi yi trashi shok
May there be the auspiciousness of the four great kings!
pen dé jungẇé né chikpo
The one true source of benefit and happiness,
tenpa yün ring nepa dang
May the teachings long endure!
tendzin kyebu dampa nam
And may the lives of the great and noble beings who uphold the teachings
ku tsé gyaltsen ten gyur chik
Remain secure, like banners of victory!
tönpa jikten kham su jönpa dang
Through the coming of the Teacher into this world,
tenpé nyi ö shyin du salwa dang
The illuminating sunlight of his teachings,
tendzin bu lob gendün tünpa yi
And harmony among the community of disciplines who uphold the teachings,
tenpa yün ring nepé trashi shok
May there be the auspiciousness of the teachings remaining long into the future!
Recite further prayers of auspiciousness to suit the occasion and conclude with music.

This was written by Mañjughoṣa. May virtue about. Sarva maṅgalaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.

Source: mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. "gnas brtan phyag mchod dang 'brel bar cho ga mdor bsdus bya
tshul" in gsung 'bum/_mkhyen brtse'i dbang po/. TBRC W21807. 24 vols. Gangtok: Gonpo Tseten,
1977–1980. Vol. 11: 332–339