A Brief Mañjuśrī Sādhana
by Patrul Rinpoche

Taking refuge:
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Repeat three times. Then for generating bodhicitta:
semchen tamché dewa dang dewé gyu dang denpar gyur chik
May all sentient beings enjoy happiness and the causes of happiness!
dukngal dang dukngal gyi gyu dang dralwar gyur chik
May they be free from suffering and the causes of suffering!
dukngal mepé dewa dang mindralwar gyur chik
May they never be separated from the sacred happiness devoid of suffering!
nyering chakdang nyi dang dralwé tang nyom tsemepa la nepar gyur chik
And may they dwell in boundless equanimity that is free from attachment and aversion!
Repeat three times. Then:
om sobhawa shuddha sarwa dharma sobhawa shuddho ham
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
tongpé ngang lé pema dawé teng
Out of the state of emptiness, upon a lotus and moon disk
rang sem dhi lé daknyi jampel yang
Appears my own mind as dhīḥ, from which Mañjughoṣa arises,
mar ser chak nyi reldri puti nam
Orange in colour, with two hands holding a sword and volume of text.
rin gyen dar gö kyi tré dor kyil shyuk
He wears jewel ornaments and silken garments and is seated in the vajra posture.
tukkar da teng dhi tar ngak treng lé
At his heart, upon a moon disk, is dhīḥ surrounded by the mantra garland,
ö trö drip sal sherab nangwa gyé
From which light radiates, clearing obscurations and expanding wisdom’s radiance.
om a ra pa tsa na dhi
oṃ arapacana dhīḥ
Repeat the mantra as many times as possible. Recite Chanting the Names of Mañjuśrī and dedicate
the merit. Then pray with:
tseden khyé kyi khyen rab özer gyi
With all of your kindness and love, let your wisdom’s shining light
dak lö timuk münpa rabsal né
Clear the darkness of my ignorance, once and for all.
ka dang tenchö shyung luk tokpa yi
Grant me, I pray, the intelligence, the brilliance
lodrö pobpé nangwa tsal du sol
To understand the scriptures—both the Word and the treatises.

Written by the one named Śrī.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2018.

Source: o rgyan 'jigs med chos kyi dbang po. "'jam dbyangs sgrub thabs bsdus pa/" in gsung 'bum/_o
rgyan 'jigs med chos kyi dbang po. Chengdu: Si khron mi rigs dpe skrun khang, 2003.
TBRC: W25007, vol. 3: 142