A Concise Meditation and Mantra Recitation of Sarasvatī
from the Heart Essence of the Ḍākinī of Suchness (Chönyi Khandrö Tuktik)
revealed by Sera Khandro

Begin your practice of meditation on, and mantra recitation of, Sarasvatī with refuge:
namo, dakshyen dro druk semchen nam
Namo. I, along with all beings of the six realms,
chok sum kündü ngowo nyi
Take refuge in you, Sarasvatī,
yangchen lhamor kyab su chi
Embodiment of the Three Jewels—
ngendrö jik lé kyab tu sol
Pray keep us from the fears of the lower realms!
Recite the above three times. Then take the pledge to awaken (bodhicitta) with:
ho, mar gyur drowa kün döndu
Ho. For the sake of all beings, who have each had the experience of being a parent to me—
mönpa changchub sem dang ni
I generate the aspiration of bodhicitta
jukpa parol chinpa druk
And pledge to engage and accomplish
deng né tsam té drubpar gyi
The practice of the six perfect actions.
Recite the above three times. For the meditation upon the deity:
hrih, rangnyi kechik yangchen lhamö ku
Hrīḥ. Instantaneously I arise as Sarasvatī,
karsal dangden shyi dzum tsenpé gyen
Translucent white, peaceful and radiant as she smiles, adorned with the major and minor marks
of perfection.
shyal chik chak nyi piwam nyampé dzin
She has one face and two hands that play a sitar.
tsedren dar chang rinchen gyenché dzé
Silken tassels hang from her jewel tiara.
shyab nyi pé dar kyang kum tsul du shyuk
She sits on lotus and moon disk with her ankles crossed and knees drawn up.
detar salwé né sum dru sum lé
The three places of her body are each marked with a syllable,
ö trö ku sum gyalwé shying la pok
From which light radiates to the myriad buddha-fields of the three kāyas
gyal kün yangchen lhamö nampa ru
And invites the awakened in the aspect of Sarasvatī.
chendrang damyé yermé ro chik gyur
The invoked wisdom merges with and becomes of one taste with me, the visualized deity;
riktong jömé lhamö rang shyal jal
Awareness–emptiness, beyond all expression—behold the real face of the goddess.
saltong gakpa mepé ngang du da
Within unimpeded emptiness-luminosity, I recite the mantra:
om hring déwi pradznya wardhani yé soha
Oṃ hrīṃ devi prajñā vārdhani ye svāhā
If you recite this continuously with diligenceYou will accomplish the goddess, Sarasvatī,And
be forever cared for by her,Gain the dhāraṇī of wisdom and increased intelligence—Of this
there is no doubt! Samaya.
At the conclusion of your meditation session make the traditional offerings and praise with:
hung, karsal tön dé pal lé lhakpar dzé
Hūṃ. Autumn’s full moon cannot eclipse your beauty,
sherab lodrö zung dang pobpa chang
You hold wisdom’s dhāraṇī and speak with confidence and eloquence,
yönten rabdzok khyentsé ter ngawa
All qualities are perfected in you—for your mind is the very treasury of love and wisdom.
yangchen lhamö ku sung tuk la tö
Sarasvatī, I praise your body, speech and mind.

gewé dak sok semchen malüpa
Through this merit may all beings
womin dakpé shying la chöpar shok
Come to enjoy the highest, Akaniṣṭha, pure realm.

This concise meditation on, and mantra recitation of, the goddess Sarasvatī, was requested,
together with a silken scarf, by the monastic mantrika Chhedaka, and written by the one named
Sukha. May it prove virtuous!

| Translated by Sean Price and edited for Lotsawa House, 2019.