A Means to Pacify the Fear of Natural Disasters
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

sa yi jikpa shyiwé chir
In order to pacify the fear of natural disasters,
rangnyi dorjé drolma ting
I appear as Vajra Tārā, blue in colour—
chak yé chok jin yönpa ni
Her right hand in the gesture of supreme generosity,
kyab jin chakgyé utpal la
Her left in the mudrā of granting protection
dorjé tsé ngé tsenpa nam
And holding an utpala topped by a five-pronged vajra.
dar dang rinchen gyen gyi gyen
She is adorned with the silk and jewel ornaments.
né sum jinlab yeshe tim
Blessings and wisdom enter my three centres;
wangkur chötö solwa dab
I am empowered; I present offerings, offer praise and pray.
tukkar da teng tam ting ga
At the deity’s heart, upon a moon disc is the blue syllable Tāṃ
ta kor ngak kyi trengwé kor
Surrounded by the mantra garland,
özer dorjé rangshyin trö
Which emanates rays of light, all with the nature of the vajra,
pak chö drowé dön kün jé
Presenting offerings to noble ones and working for beings’ welfare.
khyepar ngagyal lé gyurpé
In particular, I consider that the rays pacify all fears of natural disaster,
sa yi jikpa kün shyi sam
Which originate from a sense of self-importance.
At the end of the ten-syllable root mantra
Affix mama sarva laṃ laṃ bhaya śāntiṃ kuru
Before svāhā, which has an enhancing effect:

om taré tuttaré turé mama sarva lam lam bhaya shanting kuru soha
oṃ tāre tuttare ture mama sarva laṃ laṃ bhaya śāntiṃ kuru svāhā

Editor’s note: It is uncertain whether this is Jamgön Dorje Chang’s mind treasure. In the past,
at a time when there were terrifying earthquakes as frequently as eight or nine times
a day, he gave the text to students and told them to recite it.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sa yi 'jigs pa nyin rer thengs brgyad dgur 'ong skabs
slob grwa rnams la ngag 'don du gnang ba/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung
’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 6: 347

Version: 1.2-20211209