A Shower of Blessings
A Sādhana of Blue-Green Tārā
by Tsultrim Zangpo

Nama ārya tārāyai!
To practice this sādhana of Noble Tārā set up the substances of the maṇḍala: an offering torma
and the best outer offerings and food and drink for the feast that you can find.
Taking Refuge
For refuge, recite the following:
gyalyum jetsün drolma dang
Until awakening, I, along with all other beings
rabjam gyal dang sé ché la
Throughout the very reaches of space,
dakshyen khanyam semchen kün
Turn for refuge to Noble Tārā, the Mother of all Buddhas,
changchub bardu kyab su chi
As well as to the myriad Buddhas and Bodhisattvas.
Repeat this three times.
Generating Bodhicitta
magyur khanyam semchen kün
I’ll now meditate upon the Buddha, the most noble Tārā,
sishyi jikpa lé drol chir
And practice the recitation of her mantra,
jetsün chomden drolma yi
So as to free each and every parent sentient being
kyé dé naljor dir jukja
From the fears of both saṃsāra and nirvāṇa.
Accumulation of the Seven Branches
jetsün pakmar gü chaktsal
I offer prostrations to Ārya Tārā with great devotion,
chötrin tsok bul nyetung shak
Proffer cloudbanks of offerings, confess all downfalls and misdeeds;
gé la yi rang chö sung kul
I rejoice in all virtue, request the wheel of dharma be turned
tak shyuk nya ngen mi da sol
And that the buddhas remain – passing not into nirvāṇa –
gé tsok changchub chenpor ngo
And dedicate all merit to the awakening of all.
Blessing the Offerings
nangsi kunzang chöpé trin
Samantabhadra's clouds of offerings fill appearance and existence;
dechen zakmé yeshe kyi
They are blessed through the wisdom of immaculate great bliss
rolpé chöpar jin gyi lab
As an offering display,
zé mishepé ter du gyur
And thereby become an inexhaustible treasure.
om maha sukha jnana pudza samaya kham
oṃ mahāsukha jñāna pūja samaya khaṃ
Main Part: Deity Yoga
tongpé ngang lé nangsi kün
From within emptiness all appears as a pure realm,
dakpé shying gyur shyalmé khang
Within which is an inestimable mansion perfect in every way.
tsennyi dzok ü pema dang
At its centre is a lotus seat,
dawé kyilkhor nya gyé teng
Upon which is set a full moon cushion.
tam lé utpal ngönpo lé
The syllable Tāṃ appears upon it and instantly transforms into a radiant blue-green utpala flower.
ö trö dön nyi rab jé té
It radiates light, which perfectly fulfils both my own and others’ purpose.
yong gyur jetsün chomden ma
Returning, it transforms the flower, and I arise as the venerable blessed lady,
pakma drolma jangngön nyi
Noble Tārā, blue-green in colour.
shyal chik chak nyi yé chöjin
I have one face and two hands – my right hand is in the gesture of sublime generosity,
yönpa kyab jin chakgya yi
And my left, in the gesture of granting protection,
utpal yuwa né nam shing
Holds the stem of an utpala flower,
pema nyen té rabtu shyé
Which blossoms at the level of my left ear.
natsok dar gyi naza lub
Divine silks hang loosely over me,
rinpoche yi gyen gyi tré
And I wear heavenly jewellery.
shyabzung chekyil tab kyi shyuk
I sit with my right leg extended and left drawn in.
khor gyi lhamo nyishu yang
I am surrounded by twenty goddesses,
nyi dang zer shyin lhang nger dzok
Who radiate from me like rays from the sun.
detar tsokhor lhatsok kün
All of us, main deity and retinue alike,
chudruk lönpé natsö chen
Have the youth of a sixteen-year-old girl
shyi gek nyamchen né sum du
And are full of charm and grace; from the three places on our bodies,
dru sum tukké sok yik lé
Marked with the three syllables of awakened body, speech and mind,
özer drangmé rab trö gyur
And from the seed-syllable at my heart, radiate inconceivable rays of light:

rabjam gyalwé shying dang ni
From myriad buddha-fields,
sengdeng nak kyi kyetsal né
Especially the pure realm of Rosewood Pleasure Grove,
chok chü gyal dang sé ché dang
Come the buddhas and bodhisattvas of the ten directions,
chomden pakma drolma yi
Especially the oceanic deities
kyilkhor gyatso samadza
Of Ārya Tārā’s maṇḍala: samājaḥ!
damtsikpa dang yermé gyur
They merge indivisibly with the samayasattvas.
lar yang tukké ö tröpé
Then, light radiates once more from my heart
wanglha yongdzok chendrang té
And invites the deities who perform empowerment.
dak la wangkur dzé du sol
I supplicate you: pray grant me empowerment!
dütsi rab gang bumpa yi
They pour nectar from their overflowing vases,
wangkur ku gang drima dak
Which fills my body completely, purifying all defilement.
chu yi lhakma yar khyilwé
The excess water at my crown swirls up
öpakmé kyi u gyen gyur
And transforms into the crown ornament of Amitābha.

rinchen nö yang gyaché nang
The precious outer world, vast and capacious,
lhadzé lé drub nyerchö nga
Is filled with the fivefold offerings of divine substance,
ngowo detong rangshyin lé
And from the essence of natural bliss and emptiness,
drubpé chötrin dzemé ter
Arises an inexhaustible treasury of offering clouds,
kyilkhor lhatsok gyé chö bul
Which I present to delight the deities of the maṇḍala.
om ah hung | arya tare sapariwara argham padam pupe dhupe aloke gendhe newité shabta pratitsa
hung soha
oṃ āḥ hūṃ | ārya tāre saparivāra arghaṃ pādyaṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naivedye śabda pratīccha
hūṃ svāhā
lha dang lhamin chöpen gyi
O Tārā, gods and human beings alike1
shyab kyi pemo la tü dé
Place the crowns of their heads at your lotus feet;
pongpa kün lé drol dzé ma
Mother of all buddhas, who liberates from every distress,
drolma yum la chaktsal tö
I offer you homage and praise!

gang gi ku chok rinchen gyen trepa
Your sublime form is adorned with precious jewels
margé lhünpor gyukar tram jishyin
And sparkles like an emerald mountain or garland of stars.
tongwé mi ngom kün yitrok jé ma
The mere sight of you captivates the minds of all—
lhakpé lhamo utpal nam der dü
Supreme goddess, holder of the blue lotus, to you I bow.

tukkar da kyil tam yik jangngön tar
The blue-green syllable tāṃ upon the moon at my heart
yigé chupé ngak kyi trengwé kor
Is surrounded by a mantra garland composed of the ten syllables.
özer trö dü dön nyi dzok jé té
They radiate and retract rays of light, which fulfil my own and others’ aims;
nang drak rik sum dorjé sum du gyur
And appearance, sound and awareness become the three vajras.
om taré tuttaré turé soha
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā
Recite the mantra with the stable appearance of yourself as the deity, all sound as mantra,
and thought as wisdom. Don’t be distracted! With single-pointed practice, faith and devotion,
the recitation will produce the common and extraordinary accomplishments.

Gather the food and drink for the feast. Bless them with “raṃ yaṃ khaṃ” and “oṃ āḥ hūṃ.”
jetsün drolma tsokhor ché
Noble Tārā, along with your entourage,
rabjam gyalsé tsa sum lha
Infinite buddhas, bodhisattvas, deities of the three roots,
sishyi drön rik jinyepa
And those throughout existence and peace invited as guests,
tsok kyi shying dir shek su sol
Please come to the place of this feast offering.
Feast Offering
dü sum gyalwé trinlé kyi
Sublime and noble deity, embodiment of the activity
lha chok chomden pakma jé
Of all the buddhas of the three times,
tsokhor gyatsö chen nga ru
I invite you and your entourage to this feast
chi nang sangwé tsokchö bul
And present copious outer, inner and secret offerings.
tokmé sakpé diktung shak
I confess all my breaches of vows and negative actions accumulated throughout beginningless
time –
zungdzin dragek ying su drol
May the devils and enemies of grasping and grasped at be liberated within the dhātu!
lamé damdzé tsok dir rol
Please enjoy this feast – the highest of offerings –
dechen khorlor chik tu sé
And awaken all, as one, in the circle of great bliss.
maha amrita pudza ho
Mahā amṛta pūja hoḥ
Enjoy the feast.
Remainder Offering
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
ngöntsé gyalwé chen nga ru
All you guests entitled to accept these remains,
kanyen tatsik la né té
You who abide by the oath taken in the past
lhak wang drön rik tamché kün
In the presence of the victorious buddhas,
lhaktor dütsi di bul shyé
Accept these leftover offerings as a torma of nectar,
tenpa sungwé lé dzö chik
And carry out your activity of protecting the teachings!
benza samaya maha puja kha kha kha hi
vajra samaya mahā pūja kha kha khāhī
Confess your mistakes and ask for forgiveness here in the usual way.
Then, for the conclusion:
ah, lhar nang chö kyi ying su du
Āḥ! All appearances, including myself, the deity, dissolve into the dharmadhātu.
dechen gyumé zukkur dang
And once again, I arise as the rūpakāya, a magical display of great bliss.
né drak rik sum jetsünmé
I regard all appearances, sound and thought
dorjé sum gyi rolwar ta
As the play of Tārā’s three vajras.
Conclude with prayers of dedication and auspiciousness.

Thus, the one named Tsul compiled this according to the essential intent of the Guru’s profound
treasure on the basis of a major need. May virtue and excellence ensue. Maṅgalaṃ. Let
there be virtue! Virtue!

| Translated by Sean Price and Adam Pearcey, 2021.
↑ Tsultrim Zangpo provides only the first line of this famous verse, which he assumes will be
familiar to his readers; we provide it here in full.