Concise White Tārā Sādhana
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Recite “Sangyé chö dang...” three times:
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jin sok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Purify in emptiness with Oṃ svabhāva… etc.
om sobhawa shuddho sarwa dharma sobhawa shuddho hang
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
tongpé ngang lé pé dé teng
Out of the state of emptiness, upon a lotus and moon,
tam yik karpo yong gyur lé
Through the transformation of a white syllable Tāṃ,
rangnyi jetsün drolma kar
I become the noble White Tārā,
shyal chik chak nyi yé chok jin
With one face and two hands—the right in the mudrā of supreme giving
yönpé kyab jin utpal nam
And the left granting protection and holding a lotus.
shyi dzum dawé gyab yolchen
She smiles serenely, with a moon behind her,
dar dang rinchen gyen gyi tré
And is bedecked in silk and jewel ornaments.
nang la rangshyin mepar sal
Although appearing clearly she is insubstantial.
né sum om ah hung sum dang
At her three centres are the three syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ,
tuk ü da teng hung karpo
And in the centre of her heart upon a moon is a white hūṃ,
ö trö yeshe chendrang gyur
From which light shoots out to invite the wisdom being,
dza hung bam ho nyimé tim
Who dissolves indivisibly through jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ.
wanglha chendrang wangkur shying
Empowerment deities, once invoked, confer empowerment,
chu lhak gyendu khyilwa lé
And the leftover water swirls upwards,
öpakmé kyi urgyen gyur
So that Amitābha adorns her crown.
tukkar dawé rangshyin gyi
At her heart is a white wheel, the nature of the moon,
khorlo karpo tsib gyé ü
With eight spokes; in its centre is a taṃ
tam dang tsib la dru gyé sal
And on the spokes eight syllables clearly appear.
ö trö pak chö jinlab dü
Light radiates out, makes offerings to the noble ones, collects their blessings,
khyepar khordé tsechü nam
And gathers the vital essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa in particular
özer dütsi nampé drang
In the form of nectar and rays of light,
tukké khorlor timpa dang
All of which dissolves into the wheel at my heart,
dé lé dütsi gyün babpé
From which a stream of nectar flows out to fill my body
lü gang dümin chiwa jang
And wash away the potential for untimely death,
tsé yi ngödrub tobpar sam
So that I gain the siddhi of long life.
om taré tuttaré turé soha
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture svāhā
Recite this ten-syllable mantra and:
taré tuttaré turé mama ayur punyé jnana pushting kuru soha
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture mama āyur puṇya jñāna puṣṭiṃ kuru svāhā
At the end of the session:
jetsün chomden dema yi
Precious noble lady, transcendent conqueror,
dak sok dümin chiwa jang
Purify untimely death for me and other beings,
chimé tsé dang yeshe kyi
And grant us the blessings and attainments
jinlab ngödrub tsal du sol
Of immortal life and wisdom.
lhar nangö sal ying su tim
The deity appearances dissolve into the space of clear light,
zab shyi trödral ngang du shyak
And I rest in a state of profound peace beyond complexity.
lar yang rangnyi drolmé kur
Once again, I arise in the form of Tārā,
lam gyi salwé né sum du
Brilliantly vivid and marked with the three syllables
om ah hung gi tsenpar gyur
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ at my three centres.
Dedicate with “Through this virtue…etc.”
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
jetsün drolma drub gyur né
Attain the realization of Noble Tārā, and thereby
drowa chik kyang malüpa
Every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Reach her state of perfection too.

Chökyi Lodrö composed this for the recitation of Dodrup Lama Tendzin.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sgrol dkar gyi sgrub thabs nyung bsdus/" in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol.
7: 273–274