Daily Practice of Guru Drakpo
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Taking Refuge & Generating Bodhicitta
namo, lama chok sum yidam lhar
Namo! In the Guru, the Three Jewels, and the Yidam deity,
güpé kyab chi khanyam dro
With the deepest devotion I take refuge.
lamé changchub chok tob chir
So that I and all beings, as limitless as the sky, may reach unsurpassed awakening,
pema drakpo gompar gyi
I shall practice Padma Drakpo.
Visualization and Recitation
Purify everything into emptiness with the svabhāva-mantra:
om sobhava shuddho sarva dharma sobhava shuddho hang
oṃ svabhāva śuddhāḥ sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva śuddho ‘haṃ
tongpé ngang lé kechik gi
Out of emptiness, instantly, from the syllable hūṃ
pema nyima gyal sen teng
Upon lotus and sun-disc seats, trampling the gyalpo and senmo,
hung lé guru drakpo ni
I appear as Guru Drakpo,
marnak shyal chik chak nyipa
Dark red in colour with one face and two hands,
shyaldang chetsik chen sumpa
His mouth gaping open, baring his fangs, with his three eyes open wide
zur shyal yön zik gar gü nyam
He is looking sideways to the left as he revels in the nine expressions of dance,
yepé dorjé tsé gu char
His right hand raises a nine-pronged vajra
yönpé dikpa gogu dzin
And his left hand holds a nine-headed scorpion.
durtrö rolpé ché kyi gyen
He is ornamented by the charnel ground attire and
yeshe mepung long na gying
Majestically stands within an expanse of blazing wisdom fire.
chiwor shinjé drin wangchen
On his head is Yamāntaka, in his throat Hayagrīva,
tukkar chakdor tewa ru
In his heart Vajrapāṇi,
khandro dé nga sangné su
At his navel the five classes of ḍākinīs,
yaksha mewal chiwor khyung
At his secret place Yakṣa Mebal,1 and above him soars a Garuḍa.
goché lha nam salwar gyur
I clearly visualize these protective deities.2
tukkar nyi teng hung mar sal
I imagine a red hūṃ in his heart resting upon a sun-disc,
ngak kyi trengwé korwa la
Surrounded by the mantra-mālā.
mé yi özer tröpa lé
Flames burst forth
ku dang ngak treng chaktsen tsok
From which forms of Guru Drakpo, mantra-garlands and mudrās emanate
tröpé né dön jungpo kün
To incinerate all illnesses, demons and spirits,
tsa bur mé yi sekpa shyin
Like a fire blazing through straw,
mikmé kadak ying su jang
And purify them into pristine basic space beyond reference.
om ah hung a tsik ni tsik namo bhagawaté hung hung pé a hung hung pé
oṃ āḥ hūṃ acik nicik namo bhagavate hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ | a hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ ||
First, recite this mantra.
a ya ma du ru tsa sha na hung pé
a ya ma du ru ca śa na hūṃ phaṭ ||
Then, recite this mantra for a little while.
lhar nang ösal ying su tim
Perception of the deity dissolves into the basic space of luminosity.
lar yang nyukmé ku ru dang
Then again, I arise in the deity’s genuine form.
om ah hung
Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Dedication and Aspiration
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through this merit, may I swiftly
pema drakpo drub gyur né
Accomplish Padma Drakpo,
drowa chik kyang malüpa
And bring every other being too
dé yi sa la göpar shok
To that level of realization.
Thus dedicate and make aspirations.

This was composed by Chökyi Lodrö in response to Tulku Sogyal’s request.

| Translated by Stefan Mang, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "gur drag rgyun 'khyer/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo
gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 5: 261–262
↑ Yakṣa Mebal (yakṣa me dbal) is counted as the leader of the Yakṣas amongst the thirty commanders
of the haughty spirits (dregs pa’i sde dpon sum cu).↑ Protective deities, literally
‘armour-like deities’ (go cha’i lha) is a term used to refer to deities that constitute the
body maṇḍala of the main deity.