A Daily Practice of Mañjuśrī Yamāntaka
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

With refuge and bodhicitta as a preliminary, recite the following:
ayai, é nyi tongpa chöjung té
Ayai! From the dharmadhātu, the empty space of É as such,
makyé gakpa mepa lé
Which is unborn and does not cease,
rangshyin nepa drenpar ja
I bring to mind that which is naturally present:
ai yi podrang chenpö nang
Within the great palace of Ai,
gyu dang kyen lé makyepar
Not created through causes and conditions,
lunyen sadak rudra dang
Mañjuśrī arises out of awareness, like a fish leaping from water,
mahé nyida pemé teng
In a form of overwhelming splendour,
rigpa chu lé nya par tsul
And standing upon nāgas, nyen, earth lords, rudras,
jampal chakgya zil gyi nön
Buffaloes, sun, moon and lotus.
u sum chak druk shyab shyi dré
He has three faces, six arms and four striding feet,
yé kar yön mar ü ting shyal
The right face is white, the left face red, and the central face blue.
khorlo raldri dorjé yé
In his right hands he holds a wheel, sword and vajra;
bechön tün shing dik dzub yön
With his left hands he holds a club and wooden pestle and makes a threatening mudrā.
rik ngé trowö u la gyen
The wrathful ones of the five families adorn his crown
pal gyi ché dzok durtrö gyen
And he has all the glorious attributes and ornaments of the charnel ground.
yum ni nyimé chö kyi ying
His consort, indivisible within the dharmadhātu,
tingnak tsitta bhen mar tob
Is dark blue and proffers a heart and blood-filled skullcup.
trulpa gyen gyi lha gyé dang
As emanations, the eight deities of adornment
yeshe trowo chu nam dzok
And the ten of wisdom wrath are all present.
trulpé tro tsok pakmé dang
The deities emanate countless wrathful hosts
dorjé tsatsa rabtu tro
And an effusion of vajra sparks.
nang la rangshyin mepar gom
Visualize them all as appearing yet unreal.
tukkar nyi teng hung gi tar
Upon a sun at Yamāntaka’s heart,
ngak kyi trengwé korwa lé
The mantra garland revolves around a syllable Hūṃ,
özer trodü dön nyi jé
Emitting and absorbing rays of light to fulfil the twofold aims.
nangsi tamché palchenpö
All appearance and existence arises as the wisdom intent
lha ngak yermé gongpar shar
In which deity and mantra of the Great Awesome One are indivisible.
om a trotéka yamantaka hana mata bhandza hung pé
oṃ āḥ krodhika yamāntaka hana matha bhañja hūṃ phaṭ
Recite this general approach mantra.
At the end of the session, conclude with:
lhar nangö sal ying su tim
The deity’s appearance dissolves into the sphere of luminosity.
lar yang zilnön ku ru dang
Then arises once again in the form of overwhelming splendour.
benza ka wa tsi raksha hang
Vajra kāvāci rakṣa haṃ
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through the positivity and merit of this, may I swiftly
jampal trowo drub gyur né
Attain the realization of wrathful Mañjuśrī, and thereby
drowa chik kyang malüpa
Every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Reach his state of perfection too.
Dedicate the merit and recite prayers of aspiration.

This was written by Chökyi Lodrö.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey and Sean Price, with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation
and Tertön Sogyal Trust, 2021. This translation is dedicated to the memory of Hubert
Decleer (1940–2021).

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. “’jam dpal gshin rje’i rgyun khyer/“ in ’Jam dbyangs
chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 5:
145–146

Version: 1.0-20210902