The Extremely Secret Unelaborate Daily Sādhana for the Heart Practice of the Great Demon-Slayer
by Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö

Namo Guru!
Once you have received the appropriate empowerment, the extremely daily yoga is as follows:
The Preliminaries: Taking Refuge & Generating Bodhicitta
namo, lama chok sum yidam lhar
Namo! In the guru, the Three Jewels, and the yidam deity,
güpé kyab chi khanyam dro
With the deepest devotion I take refuge.
lamé changchub nyur tob chir
So that I and all beings, as limitless as the sky, reach unsurpassed awakening,
dü kyi shé chen gompar gyi
I shall practice Dükyi Shechen, the Great Demon-Slayer.
Three times.
The Main Part: The Visualization and Recitation
hung, chö kün kadak deshyin nyi
Hūṃ! All phenomena are primordially pure suchness.
nyingjé tröpar küntu nang
From all-illuminating wrathful compassion
gyu yi tingdzin hung marpo
The causal samādhi, a red luminous hūṃ,
rangjung rangsal lhukpar shar
Spontaneously and effortlessly appears.
dé letrö pé özer gyi
Light emanates from the hūṃ
nöchü ngödzin ying su jang
And purifies clinging to the world and beings as real.
jungwa rim tsek yum ngé long
The elements, one above the other, are the five mothers.1
chinö dakpa é yi ying
Within the space of ‘E’ the outer world, utterly pure,
durtrö barwé podrang cher
Is the great palace of the blazing charnel ground.
namchak tsatra tsib chü ü
In its centre upon a ten-spoked meteoric-iron wheel
pé nyi drekpé den gyi teng
And a lotus and sun-disc seat, trampling arrogant spirits
nangchü dakpa heruka
Is my pure inner nature, the Heruka
palchen düdul dü kyi shé
Dükyi Shechen, the awesome tamer of demons.
hung lé kur kyé nyukmé lha
Appearing from the syllable hūṃ,
yong gyur benza ku ma ra
This innate deity takes the form of Vajrakumāra,
tingnak shyal sum chak drukpa
Dark blue, with three heads—
yé kar yön mar ü shyal ting
The right face white, left red, and middle blue—
yé nyi dorjé tsé gu nga
And with six hands—the two on the right hold nine- and five- pronged vajras,
yön nyi mepung khatamga
The two on the left wield a blazing fireball and khaṭvāṅga,
tama rirab purbu dril
And the last two roll a kīla-dagger the size of Mount Meru.
pal dang durtrö ché kyi gyen
He is adorned with the heruka and charnel-ground ornaments,
khorlo gyendeb yum dang jor
And joined in union with his consort Dīptacakrā.
shyab shyi dortab mepung ü
With his four legs in striding posture, he stands amidst a blazing inferno,
gar gyi nyam gü nampar rol
Revelling in the nine expressions of dance.
né ngar sé chok rik nga dang
At his five places are the five supreme sons.
tsik tsam trogyal khor ché sal
On the rim joists are the wrathful kings along with their retinues,2
ku lé barwé ö kyi long
From the blazing light of his body
seng dong rik ngé trinpung tro
Stream forth cloud-banks of the five kinds of Siṃhamukhā.
khor lé tsib kyi choktsam la
On the spokes of the wheel, in the eight directions,
palchen drubdé gyé kyi lha
Reside the awesome herukas of the eight sādhanas.
tengdu dorjé namkha ding
Above them soar vajra-garuḍas,
oktu gyü sum drekpé dé
Below them dwell the proud protectors, male, female and diverse, and
kün kyang rang rang tsombur ché
Each heruka is accompanied by their retinue.
nangsi pal gyi chakgyar dzok
All appearances are perfected as the heruka’s emblems.
tsitta chong gur mukpé ü
In the main deity’s heart, in the centre of a reddish-brown dome of light,
nyi teng hung tar ngak treng khor
Upon a sun-disc resides hūṃ encircled by the mantra-mālā.
depa ngak kyi mé ö ni
During recitation, from the blazing mantra
dorjé tsönché char du trö
Masses of vajra-weapons shoot forth,
dé gyé jungpo dam la zir
Suppressing the eight classes of spirits and
barché dü tsok ying su dral
Liberating the hordes of obstacles and demons into all-encompassing space.
khordé dangchü dak la tim
The luminous essence of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa dissolve into me.
sishyi chi pal chenpor gyur
I visualize the whole of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa as the awesome heruka’s realm.
om ah hung benza guru pema kili kilaya sarva bighanen bam hung pé
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra-guru-padma kīli kīlaya sarva vighnān baṃ hūṃ phaṭ
Recite the root mantra as much as you can.
The Protection
khorlö tsib tsé mé lung lé
From the blazing fire at the tips of the spokes of the wheel
tsöncha na ngé trinpung trö
Emanate cloud-banks of weaponry of the five kinds,
tengok choktsam tamché kün
Above, below and in all directions,
shyommé sungwé gur du trik
Forming an indestructible tent of protection.
trowo cholwé tsok kyi tam
The space is filled with hosts of wild wrathful deities,
yeshe druk gi ying su dzok
Providing perfect protection within the all-encompassing space of the six wisdoms.
Add the following line to the end of the root mantra:
buddha benza ratna pema karma kili kilaya dipta tsatra jnana raksha raksha droom
buddha vajra ratna padma karma kīli kīlaya dīpta-cakra jñāna rakṣa rakṣa bhrūṃ
Recite this additional mantra for a while. Then, let all those to be protected and the protectors
rest within the great primordial purity of the indivisible awareness and emptiness.
When you rise from this meditation, recite the vowels and consonants, the ye-dharma and the
hundred-syllable mantra in order to amend any recitation mistakes.
The Conclusion: The Dissolution and Dedication
hung, lhar nangö sal ying su tim
Hūṃ! The appearances of the deities dissolve into the space of luminosity.
pé, lar yang rangnyi lha kur dang
Phaṭ! Once again I appear in the form of the deity.
om ah hung
With oṃ āḥ hūṃ my three places are protected.
gé di tayé semchen kün
Through this merit may all limitless sentient beings
mi né nya ngen dé tob ching
Attain the non-abiding nirvāṇa.
rigdzin lamé tukjé yi
By the compassion of the vidyādhara guru
chok dü kün du tashi shok
May auspiciousness pervade all directions and times.

So that I and others might easily practice Dükyi Shechen, Chökyi Lodrö wrote this simple daily
practice. May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Stefan Mang, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "thugs sgrub bdud kyi gshed kyi yang gsang spros med
rgyun 'khyer/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang,
2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 6: 9–11
↑ i.e., the five female buddhas.↑ A note says: That is the ten wrathful ones and the hybrids
(phra thabs).