Increasing Intelligence — Sealed with Profundity
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

To the Oḍḍiyāna Lord, my own awareness, I bow.Whoever wishes to expand the wisdom of twofold
knowledgeShould practise Guru Loden Chokse.At ease on a comfortable seat, recite the following:
ah, rangrig jampal pawo la
Ah. In heroic Mañjuśrī, my very own awareness,
miché güpé kyab su chi
I take refuge with unwavering devotion.
mongpé münpa selwé chir
In order to dispel delusion's darkness
loden chok sé drubpar ja
I shall set about the practice of Loden Choksé.

dhih, tongpanyi dang nyingjé ché
Dhīḥ. Emptiness and great compassion united indivisibly,
zungjuk riktsal dhih serpo
The power of awareness is a golden syllable Dhīḥ,
ö trö pak chö drib nyi jang
From which light radiates, offering to the āryas and purifying the two obscurations.
tsur dü pé nyi dawé teng
Light reconverges, and upon a lotus, sun and moon
dhih yik yong gyur kechik gi
The syllable Dhīḥ transforms in a single instant,
guru loden chok sé kar
Becoming Guru Loden Chokse, white in colour,
da ru yé la pé por yön
With a ḍāmaru in his right hand and lotus-cup in the left.
sang gö dar ber gyalpö ché
He wears a secret robe, silken cloak and regal attire
shyön tsul ziji denpé yön
And is youthful and magnificent. To his left
yangchen karmo lhamö ché
Is Sarasvatī, white and garbed in the dress of a goddess.
chak nyi piwam drengwé ten
Her two hands hold and play a vīṇā.
tukkar jetsün jampé yang
At the guru's heart is venerable Mañjughoṣa,
marser raldri lekbam ni
Orange in colour and with sword and volume
chö kyi khorlö chakgya yi
That are elegantly poised atop utpala flowers,
utpal dongbu dzin teng dzé
Whose stems he holds while displaying the Dharma Wheel mudrā.
tukkar ö ngé gongbü long
At his heart, in an expansive orb of five-coloured light
dhih dang yum tuk hring sal tab
I visualize a Dhīḥ, and at the goddess's heart a Hrīṃ.
né sum dru sum salwa dang
At their three centres three syllables clearly appear,
özer chakkyu tabu trö
From which, rays of light shoot out like hooks,
yeshe chendrang nyimé gyur
Inviting the wisdom beings who merge indivisibly.
dhih, sangye kün gyi yeshe ku
Dhīḥ. Wisdom form of all the buddhas,
guru loden chok sé tsal
Guru Loden Chokse Tsal,
rigdzin khandrö tsok dangché
Together with your hosts of vidyādharas and ḍākinīs,
möpé bu la jingyi lob
Grant this devoted child your blessings.
om ah maha guru dhih mum hring trandza jnana abekaya ah | dza hung bam ho | ati pu ho | nama
ya dhih
oṃ āḥ mahāguru dhīḥ mūṃ hrīṃ prajñā jñāna abheṣaya a | jaḥ hūṃ baṃ hoḥ | ati pū ho | namaya
dhī |
hung, ngöjor yi lé jungwa yi
Hūṃ. Actual gifts and those created by the mind,
kuntuzangpö chöpé trin
In the form of offering clouds like those of Samantabhadra,
pakyé namkhé gyen gyur té
Boundless in extent and adorning the whole of space,
jamyang lamar chöpar gyi
I offer to the Mañjughoṣa guru.
om sarwa pudza samaya ho
oṃ sarva pūja samaya hoḥ
ah, jinyé jöpa kün gyi shyi
Āḥ. Basis of all the expressions there could be,
yeshe ku té ku yi chok
Wisdom embodiment, most sublime of forms,
sung gi wangchuk mawé seng
Mighty lord of utterance, Lion of Speech,
rigdzin lamar chaktsal tö
Vidyādhara guru, to you I offer homage and praise.
Mantra Recitation
yeshe sempé tukka yi
From the vital force mantra at the heart
tuk sok ngak lé özer trö
Of the wisdom deity emanate rays of light,
gyal chö khyen nyi yeshe dü
Which offer to the buddhas and gather the wisdom of twofold knowledge.
dak tim jinlab ngödrub tob
As they return and dissolve into me, I gain blessings and attainments.
lar yang ö trö tenyo yi
Light shoots out once again, collects the vital essence
dangchü tamché dak la tim
Of the environment and beings, and dissolves into me.
nöchü jampal yabyum dang
The whole world and its inhabitants transform into Mañjuśrī and consort
rigdzin lamé kur salwa
And the form of the vidyādhara guru.
tamché ngak kyi rangdra drok
Everything reverberates with the mantra's spontaneous sound.
nyam dzog chenpor lhün gyi drub
And all is spontaneously perfect within great equalness and perfection.
Consider this, as you say:
om ah maha guru dhih mum hring trandza jnana a ra pa tsa na dhih hung soha
oṃ āḥ mahāguru dhīḥ mūṃ hrīṃ prajñā jñāna arapacana dhīḥ hūṃ svāhā
Recite this with stable, single-pointed concentration.At the end, through reciting the vowels
and consonants and the essence of interdependenceYou will stabilize the power and blessings.
Dissolution
lhar nang ösal ngang du tim
All perception of the deity dissolves within an experience of clear light.
zab shyi trödral long du ah
And in the expanse of profound peace beyond complexity: āḥ.
lar yang nang drak toktsok nam
Once again, sights, sounds, thoughts and ideas
rigdzin lamé rolpar shar
Arise as the display of the vidyādhara guru.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ.

Then dedicate the virtue by saying, "Through this merit..." and so on.
Summoned by the pounding drumOf this virtuous interconnection,Confidently I drew this jewel
treasure of the supreme mindOut of the ocean of awareness.
Through this virtue, may I and all other sentient beingsAlways be cared for throughout our future
livesBy the supremely wise Loden Chokse,And may the light of perfect wisdom expand.

Thus, on the sixteenth day of the monkey month of the Fire Bird year, during the feast offering
of Lama Sangdü, I, Pema Yeshe Dorje, wrote this in response to a request (supported by
an offering) from the little tulku Sogyal. Śubhaṃ.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2019.

Source: 'Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "shes rab blo 'phel zab rgya can/" in ’Jam dbyangs chos
kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012. W1KG12986 Vol. 9: 545–547