The Sādhana of the Five Self-Arisen Noble Brothers:1 An Instruction in the Union of Generation
and Completion
by Shikpo Lingpa

om mani padme hung
oṃ maṇi padme hūṃ
In the miracle month of the snake year, at dawn on the 18th day,2 during a seven-times born
great accomplishment ritual,3 the following vision occurred, within a dream: At the place
known as Khyung Drak, the confluence of Khardo Nak, my guru of many lifetimes appeared before
me and said: “Meditate until you have perfected this practice. A teaching which brings
liberation in this lifetime, it is the creation and completion stages of the noble ones of
the five families:
Since samsaric dharmas arise from the mind, first cultivate the yoga of impermanence. Then,
take refuge and arouse bodhicitta. Contemplate the nature of emptiness of all phenomena and
generate compassion and love towards all wandering beings as if they were your own mothers.
tongnyi nyingjé ngangchen lé
Out of the state of emptiness and compassion,
pé dé den la hrih yik kar
Seated upon a lotus and moon-disc, appears the white syllable hrīḥ.
dé lé rangnyi chenrezik
From it, I appear as Avalokiteśvara
shyal chik chak shyi ku ru gom
With one face and four arms.
chiwor pakpa ja ma li
On the crown of my head is Ārya Jamali,4
dok ting pema yé na nam
Dark blue in colour, in his right hand a lotus,
yönpa kyab jin pak gyachen
His left hand in the mudrā of granting protection.5
drinpar pakpa wati ku
In my throat is Ārya Vati,6
dok mar pema kyab jinchen
Red in colour, holding a lotus and granting protection.
nyingkhar pakpa bu kham dé
In my heart is Ārya Bukhaṃ,7
dok ser kyab jin pema dzin
Golden in colour, holding a lotus and granting protection.
tewar jikten wangchuk ku
In my navel is Lokeśvara,8
dok jang kyab jin pema dzin
Green in colour, holding a lotus and granting protection.
kün kyang ché kyil rolpar shyuk
All are delightfully seated in crossed-leg posture.
ri gé pakpé numa kak
In my mind’s eye, deerskins cover their chests
dar dang rinpoche gyen
And graceful adornments of jewels and silks
tsang kü serpö rabtu dzé
And the sacred golden thread.9
tsokhor tamché özer gyi
The main deity and his entourage
gur du shyukpar sampé ngang
Reside within a dome of light.
potala né yeshé pa
From the Poṭala itself, I summon the jñānasattvas,
kuk tim chö ching töpa tö
Dissolve them, presenting offerings and praise,
rikdak sangyé marpo chok
And in my mind’s eye I see the lord of the family,the buddha red and supreme,10
trulpé ku yi u gyen sam
As the nirmāṇakāya adorning their crowns.
tuk sok hrih yi takor du
Life-force of the heart centre, hrīḥ is surrounded
zung ngak di nyi khorwa lé
By the turning, self-spinning dhāraṇī mantra.
ö trö nedön dikdrib sek
Light rays stream outwards, burning up sickness,Burning to ash all harmful influences,Clearing
all negativity and obstruction.
yar trö sangyé jang sem chö
And light rays stream upwards, purifying buddha-fields,And sending forth streams of imagined
offerings.
drowa semchen tamché kyi
The light purifies all negativity and delusion
dikdrib jang shing tamché kyang
For wandering beings without exception,
pakpé ku ru salwar gom
And I rest in meditation, all appearances as the Noble One.11
Recite this dhāraṇī mantra innumerable times:
om arya wati mani jamali padmé bhukham lokeshwara hung shantim pushtim washam karma siddhi phala
hung
oṃ ārya vati maṇi jamali padme bhukhaṃ lokeśvara hūṃ śāntiṃ puṣtiṃ vāśaṃ karma siddhi phala
hūṃ
Having recited the mantra thus, present vast offerings and praise.The assembled deities of Noble
Ones,12 Arisen from your mind, are the dharmakāya. While engaged in reciting the dhāraṇī
mantra, Continuously cultivate the awakened mind13And exchange yourself with others.Then,
rest within emptiness, settle within equipoise, Free from all mental fabrications, Actualizing,
taking to heart the six pāramitās.If you practice these instructions, You will become
indivisible from the Noble One,Dredging from saṃsāra’s depths the six classes of beingsAnd
you will attain the bodhisattva bhūmis.In post-meditation, Dedicate your activities
to the benefit of beings And recite aspiration prayers.
This practice of the Five Self-Arisen Noble Brothers Delivers the creation and completion of
the body maṇḍalaInto the palm of your hand.It was spoken in my dream by Yeshé Kyungdrak,
The mind emanation of the supreme Guru Padma. It was written down accordingly by Gargyi Wangchuk
Tsal.14Through this merit may we swiftly reach attainment and buddhahood! Maṅgalaṃ!

| Lhasey Lotsawa, 2017. (Translated by Stefan Mang and Peter Woods with reference to Hubert
Decleer’s translation of the same practice.15 Edited by Sara Lytle and Libby Hogg.)
↑ Shikpo Linga’s sādhana is a unique practice focused on a set of four Avalokiteśvara statues
that are highly sacred and revered among Tibetan Buddhists. What Shikpo Lingpa counts as
the fifth brother is the self-visualization generated by the practitioner. The statues of
the four self-arisen Avalokiteśvara brothers are located along the ancient trade route that
begins in Patan, passing through the Kathmandu valley and continuing up the Trisuli river
valley until it finally reaches Lhasa in Tibet. The history of the statues is deeply connected
to the introduction and formation of Buddhism within Tibet in the 7th century. The
history of the self-arisen Avalokiteśvara brothers begins with Avalokiteśvara sending and
concealing sacred images of himself throughout our world, so as to benefit beings within
this degenerate age. In the 7th century, there appeared King Songtsen Gampo (c.605-650), an
emanation of Avalokiteśvara whose purpose was to establish the sacred Dharma within Tibet.
Well aware of the power of these unique and sacred treasures, Songtsen Gampo sought to
bring such a statue of Avalokiteśvara to Tibet, that it might bless the land and people and
lay the ground for the establishment of the Dharma. King Songtsen Gampo shot forth a light
ray from between his eyebrows, on the tip of which he sent an emanation—the monk Akaramatiśīla—to
identify a particular Haricandana tree in the thick of a sandalwood forest somewhere
in the Terai of southern Nepal, and to gently extract from it the self-arisen Avalokiteśvara
brothers. During the process of extraction, the statues miraculously spoke and determined
the location of their future residences, choosing the places where they are now situated.
For a summary of the story, see: Hubert Decleer, “The Sacred Wati Image and Temple
in Kyirong – Franz-Karl Erhard's Magisterial Magnum Opus,” The Tibet Journal XXXI.3, 2006.
See also: Per K. Sørensen, Tibetan Buddhist Historiography: The Mirror Illuminating the
Royal Genealogies: An Annotated Translation of the XIVth Century Chronicle rGyal-rabs gsal-ba'i
me-long, (Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz Verlag, 1994) 189-194. For an extensive discussion
of the various stories, see: Franz Karl Ehrhard, Die Statue und der Tempel des Arya Va-ti
bzang-po: Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte und Geographie des Tibetischen Buddhismus, (Wiesbaden:
Dr. Ludwig Reichert Verlag, 2004). For pictures of the four statues, see: http://www.himalayanart.org/search/set.cfm?setid=3934.
And for a short discussion of the sādhana, see:
Hubert Decleer, “Another Newar Link with Suratabajra & Lhasa’s White Crystal Cave? Zhigpo-lingpa’s
Meditation Scenario on the Five Arya Brother Images,” The Great Compassion: International
Buddhist Review, 1, 2004, 53-8.↑ Tuesday 26th February, 1557.↑ The seven-times born
great accomplishment ritual is  terma treasure practice, revealed by Shikpo Lingpa, aiming
at repelling the invading Mongol armies and protecting the Tibetan borders.↑ Ārya Jamali,
referred to by Tibetans as Jowo Dzamling Karpo and by Nepalis as Seto Machindranath,
is located in Jana Bahal midway between Asan Tole and Indra Chowk, close to the Kathmandu
Durbar Square.↑ The colour and attributes of the Avalokiteśvara statues change according to
the various accounts of their origin.↑ Ārya Vati Zangpo’s original location was in the border-taming
temple Jamtrim in Kyirong in Mangyul. However, it has been moved to Dharamsala,
where it now remains in the possession of His Holiness the Dalai Lama.↑ Ārya Bukham resides
for one half of the year in Patan and for the other half of the year in Bungamati.↑ Ārya
Lokeśvara resides in the Potala Palace in Lhasa.↑ The sacred thread (Skt. Yajñopavīta)
is received by a boy during the traditional rite of passage (Skt. saṃskāra) that marked the
acceptance of a student by a guru.↑ Amitābha↑ Avalokiteśvara↑ The self-visualization along
with all sentient beings – all without exception are now visualised as Avalokiteshvara.↑
bodhicitta↑ Aka Shikpo Lingpa.↑ See: Hubert Decleer, “Another Newar Link with Suratabajra
& Lhasa’s White Crystal Cave? Zhigpo-lingpa’s Meditation Scenario on the Five Arya Brother
Images,” The Great Compassion: International Buddhist Review, 1, 2004, 53-8. For a Tibetan
publication of the text, see: Franz Karl Ehrhard, Die Statue und der Tempel des Arya
Va-ti bzang-po: Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte und Geographie des Tibetischen Buddhismus, (Wiesbaden:
Dr. Ludwig Reichert Verlag, 2004), 523-4.