The Brilliant Essence
The Ritual Manual for the Secret Embodiment of the Guru (Lama Sangdü)
by Minling Terchen Gyurme Dorje

Namo guru padmākarāya!

The essence of all the victors of the three times,As a playful display of the ocean of the all-encompassing
maṇḍala,You manifested as the sovereign lord, Tötrengtsal.You are definitively
the essential guru of reflexive awareness; thus I bow to you.
The gateways through which all unsurpassable accomplishments arise arePadma’s heart treasures,
the quintessence of the profound path.The root and supplemental texts of The Secret Embodiment
have been properly arranged;Here they will be made clear according to the meaning
of the pure texts.
In this regard, the root practice text of the Secret Embodiment says:
The general summary of Guru Padmākara’s heart practice,The teaching of The Secret Embodiment,
has four main headings: 1) preparations, 2) main practice, 3) conclusion, and 4) appendix:
pith instructions of the practice.
There are six parts to the beginning, the preparation:1) arranging the ritual support, 2) demarcating
the boundary,3) confessing misdeeds, 4) offering to the guru,5) supplicating, and
6) receiving the empowerments.
There are six parts to the second section, the main practice:1) generating the deity, 2) reciting
the essence mantra,3) accomplishing the enlightened activities, 4) maintaining the wisdom
mind,5) the arising of signs, and 6) receiving the accomplishments.
The third section, the conclusion, also has six parts:1) generating pure vision, 2) offering
praises,3) mending impairments and breakages, 4) accomplishing the sets of activities,5)
holding the philosophical view, and 6) making aspirations.
The fourth section, the pith instructions, also has six parts:1) the eight-chapter ritual manual,
2) the eight profound seals,3) the eight points of the manuscript, 4) the eight essentials,5)
the eight activities of the ḍākinīs, and 6) the eight minor books.
The four discourses, four root chapters,And the forty-eight minor pointsComplete the conditions
of the heart practice of The Secret Embodiment.
In this context, as far as what is included in the three main headings of preparation, main
practice, and conclusion, one needs to establish everything according to one’s own tradition.
[Concerning the fourth main heading of Pith Instructions], it is the main supplemental
material designated as the “eight divisions.” The first of the six [subdivisions of pith
instructions] is The Eight-Chapter Ritual Manual. The following is what needs to be known
and has been selectively collected from the ritual manual.1
I. PREPARATION
1. Arranging the Ritual Supports
As a preliminary, offer the torma to the local deities, then anoint the surface of the maṇḍala
with the five nectars.
hung, ka sang medu jungwé kyilkhor du
Hūṃ! I sprinkle the five nectars
dütsi nam ngé chakchak dab
Upon the marvelous maṇḍala of the secret command.
jung dang jung gyur kyilkhor chok
The elements and the structures arisen from them clearly manifest followed by the supreme maṇḍala
yeshe nga dzok shyalyé sal
And the immeasurable palace complete with the five primordial wisdoms.
om sarva pentsa guya jnana mandala tram
oṃ sarva pañca guhya jñāna maṇḍala trāṃ
As for practicing without a maṇḍala structure: the master and a principal disciple manifest
as male and female consorts and from the secret space bodhicitta issues forth establishing
the lines. Then, whether the maṇḍala is extensive or concise, apply the appropriate colors
for the families. It is also acceptable to anoint the maṇḍala [ground] with the five nectars
and arrange heaps of grain in accordance with the number of deities.
In the center of the supports and substances, arrange a vase filled with elixir upon which sits
an upside-down maṇḍala plate. Inside its opening, arrange a skull cup, which is composed
of a single piece, and fill it with grain. In the center of the grain, position the picture
of the samaya deity. On top of this make a parasol out of red silk. In front of this
structure, sits a blazing jewel torma and various foods including meat and butter, all of
which have been sprinkled with nectar. Arrange the medicinal nectar and rakta to the left
and right. Collect and arrange any additional necessities that are worthy of offering, including
outer and inner offering substances and articles. It is also suitable to make a torma
as a practice support for a standard practice ceremony.
2. Demarcating the Boundary
rangnyi kechik gi pawo tamdrin yum dang chepé kur
Instantly I generate myself as the hero Hayagrīva in union with the consort.
Then consecrate the obstructors’ torma and dedicate with the following.
hung, lama nam kyi jinlab dang
Hūṃ! By the blessings of the gurus,
yidam lha yi tingdzin dang
The meditative concentration of the deities, and
khandro nam kyi tutsal gyi
The powerful abilities of the ḍākinīs,
ngödrub barché jepé gek
The obstructors that create hindrances to accomplishment and
lokpar drenpa dü kyi tsok
The hordes of māras that lead us astray
diru ma duk shyendu deng
Do not remain here but are dispersed elsewhere!

hung, nga ni yené ngang gi tro
Hūṃ! I am and have always been the naturally fierce one;
tsam chö trowö namkha gang
I demarcate this boundary and fill the space with wrathful ones.
gek dul trowö rol tsam lé
Nobody shall pass over this boundary,
su yang dawar ma jé chik
This display of obstructor-subjugating wrathful ones!
om ah hung hrih guru dewa dakini benza krodha raksha raksha hung pé
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ guru deva ḍākinī vajra krodha rakṣa rakṣa hūṃ phaṭ
Visualize that the protective tent of ferocious vajras pervades all.
3. Confession
podrang ü kyi ten denyi
In the center of the palace is the sacred support,
rang gi ré tö lama dang
The guru of my hopes and concerns,
dü sum deshek yidam lha
The essence of all
kün gyi ngowor gyurpa la
Sugatas and deities of the three times is
nampa lama dorjé sem
Guru Vajrasattva,
sangdü gyalwé ku ru gyur
Who appears as the victor of the secret assembly.
With this, which is taught to be the object of confession, recite the following as the support.
namo, lama deshek düpé ku
Namo! To the guru who is the embodiment of the sugatas and
könchok sum gyi rangshyin la
The nature of the Three Supreme Jewels,
dak dang dro druk semchen nam
I and all sentient beings of the six realms
changchub bardu kyab su chi
Go for refuge until enlightenment [is recognized].

semkyé drowa kün döndu
I vow to generate bodhicitta, accomplish the awakened guru
lama sangye drub né su
For the sake of all beings, and
gang la gang dul trinlé kyi
Liberate beings through enlightened activities
drowa dralwar damcha o
In accordance with their needs.
Recite this three times.
For the actual confession:
hung, lama yidam khandro gong
Hūṃ! Guru, deity, ḍākinī, consider these words:
khyé ni namdak drima mé
You are completely pure and stainless;
dak ni nyönmong dribpé drib
I am enveloped by afflictions and obscurations, and
nyamchak dikdrib tol shying shak
I confess and repent impairments, breakages, misdeeds, and obscurations.
om ah hung guru dewa dakini benza samaya sarva dhamah sabhawa bishuddho hang sarva dhama samaya
ho samaya satam
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī vajra samaya sarva dharmaḥ svabhava viśudho haṃ sarva dharmaḥ samaya
hoḥ samaya stvaṃ
Confess in that way.
4. Offering to the Guru
Arrange the maṇḍala with eleven heaps of grain and visualize Mount Meru and the four continents
along with the five sensory pleasures.
om ah hung guru dé wa dakini benza samaya dza
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī vajra samaya ja
om ah hung guru deva dakini ratna mandal pudza megha samudra saparana samayé soha
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī ratna maṇḍala puja megha samudra spharaṇa samaye svāhā
dak gi lü dang longchö dang
My own body, resources, and
dü sum gewé ngöpo nam
All the virtuous things of the three times,
kunzang chötrin cher pel né
Having multiplied these like the great offering-clouds of the bodhisattva Samantabhadra,
lama gyalwa sé ché chö
I offer to the gurus, the victorious ones, and their heirs.
Should you wish, you could also gather the accumulations of the kusāli—the beggar’s body-offering
practice.
5. Supplication
kyé kyé lama rinpoche
Oh! Alas! Precious guru,
sangye tamché düpé ku
You are the embodiment of all the buddhas and
drowa kün gyi nyen chikpo
The sole ally to all beings;
gönmé dak la tukjé zung
I am without a protector, so hold me with your compassion!
lama dorjé sempa ché
Great Guru Vajrasattva,
ré shying töpé nyen chikpo
Sole ally in whom I place my hope and trust,
dak la resa shyen namé
I have no other hope but you;
dukngal dam né drang du sol
Lead me out of this swamp of suffering!
jetsün pema tötreng tsal
Venerable Pema Tötrengtsal,
khyé la daknyi dren du bul
I offer myself in service to you.
kyiduk ré tö khyé shepé
You know my happiness, sadness, hopes, and concerns;
lamé chok gi ngödrub tsol
Bestow the unsurpassable, supreme accomplishments!
lama sangye trinlé dzé
Enact the activities of the awakened gurus!
dak la wang kur jin lob la
Confer empowerments and blessings upon me!
tayé semchen malü kün
All limitless sentient beings without exception,
drenpé lamar dak gyur chik
Let me guide them as their guru.
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
Recite as much as possible.
6. Receiving the Empowerments
lama yabyum ku yi neshyi né
Light rays emanate from the four places of the guru in union with the consort
özer jungwa dak gi neshyir tim
And dissolve into my four places.
ku sung tuk dang yeshe dorjé yi
By the enlightened body, speech, and mind as well as the primordial wisdom vajra,
jin gyi lab né wang shyi tobpar gyur
I have been blessed and have obtained the four empowerments.
The actual empowerment is to remain in the [unwavering] wisdom mind.
II. MAIN PRACTICE
Of the six sections of the main practice, the first part consists of 1) the actual generation
of the deity and 2) associated sections.
1.1. Visualization
om, chöku mingyur dorjé sem
Oṃ! The unchanging dharmakāya is the vajra mind.
pema gyalpo diké ma
The King Padma said these words concerning it:
dangpo chö nam mikmé ching
Firstly, all phenomena are without reference,
ma jö dralba dzogpa ché
Free from descriptions and expressions, and totally perfect.
lodé chöku migyurwé
That which is beyond the mind, the immutable dharmakāya—
deshyin nyi kyi tingdzin gom
Meditate on the concentration of thatness.

a, lodral dé yi ngang nyi lé
Āḥ! In the state that is free of concepts,
semchen kün la khyabpa yi
Cultivate great love and compassion,
tsewé nyingjé chenpo gom
Which extends to all sentient beings.

hung, tongnyi nyingjé ngang nyi lé
Hūṃ! In the state of emptiness and compassion,
dro dön pakmé jepé lé
To bring immense benefit for beings,
rangrig ser gyi dorjér gom
Meditation on reflexive awareness as a golden vajra.
dorjé ö lé shyalyé khang
Light rays emanate and an immeasurable palace appears,
pema rinchen barwa pel
Inside is a radiating, blazing jewel lotus
jatsön drepa tabü nang
With an interior akin to an unfurled rainbow.
té ü nyida pemé teng
In its center sits a sun, moon, and a lotus,
dorjé né gyur dren dzok su
Upon which stands a vajra. In a moment of perfect recall it transforms into
tamdrin wangchen kudok mar
The Mighty One, Hayagrīva, red in color,
shyal chik chak nyi u yi tsuk
With one face and two arms.
ta go také chok chur drok
On his crown is a horse’s head neighing in the ten directions.
chak yé wangdü driguk char
He brandishes a hooked knife of subjugation in the right hand,
chak yön töpa trak kang sol
Clutches and drinks from a skull cup of blood in the left hand.
rüpé gyen druk khatam nam
He is adorned with the six bone ornaments and bears a khaṭvāṅga trident.
yé kum yön kyang dü shyi dzi
He tramples the four māras with his right leg bent and his left leg extended.
nyida pé teng gying shying ji
He is poised upon the sun, moon, and lotus—absolute magnificence!
yön né dorjé pak mö khyü
From the left side he is embraced by Vajravārāhī,
chaluk yab dra chiwö tsuk
Adorned with attire just like that of Hayagrīva.
pak shyal ting ga ngur dra drok
Upon her crown is a snorting dark-blue sow’s head.
shyön tsul numa bhaga gyé
She is youthful with ample breasts and a full bhaga.
kalpé mepung long na shyuk
They dwell amidst the fire that burns at the end of an eon,
özer dorjé tsatsa tro
Emanating light-rays and vajra sparks.
denyi chitsuk nyidé teng
Above them, on a sun and moon
pema gesar nyingpo la
And in the center of the pollen bed of the lotus,
daknyi pema tötreng tsal
Is the Lord himself, Pema Tötrengtsal,
dorjé sempé chaluk chen
Appearing in the form of Vajrasattva.
tingnak shyal chik chak nyipa
He is blue-black with one face and two arms,
cherbu chen sum rügyen chen
Naked, with three eyes and attired in bone ornaments.
chak yé dorjé tukkar dzin
He holds a vajra at his heart with his right hand
chak yön drilbu yum la khyü
And a bell with his left while he embraces his consort.
shyab nyi dorjé kyiltrung shyuk
He is seated in the cross-legged vajra posture.
dé yi pang yön rikma ni
On the left side of his lap is the awareness consort,
yeshe khandro tsogyalma
The primordial wisdom ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal.
chudruk lönpé shyön tsulchen
Her appearance is that of a sixteen-year-old youth.
pé dok numa bhaga gyé
She is lotus-colored with ample breasts and a full bhaga.
rinchen rügyen chöpen chen
She is adorned with precious ornaments, bone ornaments, and a tiara.
chak yé yab kyi gul né khyü
She embraces the neck of her consort with her right hand and
chak yön töpé dütsi tob
Offers a skull cup of nectar with her left.
shyab nyi yab kyi ké la tril
Her two legs are wrapped around her consort’s waist.
kudok kar mar dzum dangchen
She has a rosy complexion and a bright smile.
tra drol cherbu öden sam
She is lustrously naked with her hair falling free.
chok shyir rik shyi tötreng tsal
In the four directions is Tötrengtsal in the form of the four buddha families
kar ser mar dang janggü dok
In the colors white, yellow, red, and green.
lé shyi drub chir möpé kyé
Invoking them accomplishes their four enlightened activities.
khoryuk ja yi drawar gom
All of this is encircled by a rainbow net.
choktsam rinchen zur gyé kyi
In the cardinal and intermediate directions are eight jewels.
dzum tengwar nang ja ö long
In the space above their shining points is an expanse of rainbow light where
trulpé guru tsen gyé sal
The eight manifestations of the guru clearly appear.

hri, podrang chok shyir pedab shyi
Hrīḥ! In the four directions of the palace are four lotus petals—
kar ser mar jang rinchen drü
White, yellow, red, and green—each with their own precious seed.
nang khong shying gi den shyi la
Inside them are the four corpse seats,
dorjé rinchen pema dang
Upon which sit the Vajra, Ratna, Padma, and
lé kyi khandro yabyum nam
Karma ḍākinīs with their consorts,
kudok rik kyi khadok la
Their colors matching their buddha family.
tril jor gyen dang chaluk nam
Their sexual union, ornamentations, and attire
tsowo yabyum nyi tar kyé
Resemble those of the two principal deities in union.
natsok pé khor chima la
On the outer ring of the variegated lotuses are
dak kyob lha dang rigdzin dang
Personal guardians and the deities, vidyādharas,
rik dü khandro chökyong nam
Assemblies of noble ones, ḍākinīs, and dharma protectors
ngödrub ter shying barché sel
Bestowing accomplishments and clearing away obstacles.
lu danggar jé rolmo drok
They sing, dance, and play music,
döyön chöpa natsok tob
And present a multitude of desirable offerings.
chartrin tibpa tabur kyé
They amass like billowing rain clouds.
dumar nang yang ngang du chik
Although they appear as many, they are in a single state.
Having meditated in this way, it is also said to be appropriate to begin the recitation of the
mantra.
1.2. Associated Sections
This is a combination of the third and fourth chapters of the supplemental Eight Chapters. The
former has three aspects, of which the invitation is as follows.
1.2.1. Invitation
hung, ngön gyi kalpé dangpo la
Hūṃ! Previously, in the first eon,
orgyen yul gyi nubjang tsam
On the northwest border of the country of Oḍḍiyāna,
pema gesar dongpo la
In the pollen bed of a lotus,
yatsen chok gi ngödrub nyé
You discovered the wondrous and supreme accomplishment.
pema jungné shyé su drak
You are renowned as Padmākara
khor du khandro mangpö kor
And are surrounded by a retinue of many ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
As I practice in your footsteps,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

silwa tsal gyi durtrö du
In the charnel ground of the Cool Grove Forest, Śītavana,
yönten natsok ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of a myriad of enlightened qualities.
pemasambha shyé su drak
You are renowned Padmasambhava, the Lotus-Born,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

raga rakté né chok tu
In the supreme site of Ruby Rakta, Rāga Rakta,
tamché khyenpé ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of omniscience.
loden chok sé ché su drak
You are renowned as Loden Choksé, the Supremely Intelligent,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

gawa tsal gyi durtrö du
In the charnel ground of Pleasure Grove, Nandanavana,
kham sum wangdü ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of subjugating the three realms.
pema gyalpo shyé su drak
You are renowned as Pema Gyalpo, the Lotus King,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

sosa ling gi durtrö du
In the charnel ground of Sosadvīpa,
drowa dulwé ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of taming all beings.
nyima özer shyé su drak
You are renowned as Nyima Öser, the Light Rays of the Sun,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

zahor gyalpö yulü su
In the central land of the king of Sahor,
düdul drakpö ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of wrathfully subduing the māras.
shakya sengé shyé su drak
You are renowned as Śākya Sengé, the Lion of the Śākya,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

magadha yi drongkhyer du
In a city of Magadha,
mutek dulwé ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of subduing the tīrthikas.
sengé dradrok ché su drak
You are renowned as Sengé Dradrok, the Lion’s Roar,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

tak tsang sengé sam drub tu
In the Taktsang Sengé Samdrub cave [in Bhutan],
drekpa tsarchö ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of annihilating the arrogant ones.
dorjé drolö ché su drak
You are renowned as Dorjé Drolö,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

hung, yul gyi ming ni ngayab ling
Hūṃ! In the land named Cāmaradvīpa, [the land of the rākṣasas],
zangdok palri tsemo ru
On the peak of the Glorious Copper-Colored Mountain,
pema ö kyi shyalyé su
In the immeasurable Palace of Lotus Light,
drubpa tarchin ngödrub nyé
You discovered the accomplishment of complete attainment.
pema tötreng tsal du drak
You are renowned as Pema Tötrengtsal, the Lotus Garland of Skulls,
khor du khandro mangpö kor
And are surrounded by a retinue of many ḍākinīs.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
As I practice in your footsteps,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.

né chok diru jin pob la
Shower down your consecrations on this supreme site,
drub chok dak la wang shyi kur
Confer the four empowerments on me, the supreme practitioner!
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Dispel the obstacles and the hindrances that lead one astray;
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Bestow the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!

hri, dechen barwé shyalyé né
Hrīḥ! From the immeasurable palace of the Blazing Great Bliss,
wang gi gyalpo tachok pal
The powerful sovereign, the glorious and supreme Hayagrīva,
dorjé pakmo yum dangché
Along with the consort Vajravārāhī,
ngödrub tsol chir shek su sol
Please come forth and bestow the accomplishments!

chok shyi tsam gyé shyalyé né
From the four cardinal and eight intermediate directions of the immeasurable palace,
rik shyi khandro shek su sol
Ḍākinīs of the four buddha families, please come forth!

düdul ging shyi shek su sol
Servants of the Heruka, four warrior gings who subdue the māras, please come forth!
pawo pamo shek su sol
Heroes and heroines, please come forth!

durtrö chenpö né gyé né
From the eight sacred sites, those of the great charnel grounds,
khandro pawo malü dang
Ḍākinīs and heroes without exception and
rigdzin chökyong tamché jön
All the vidyādharas and dharma protectors arrive with
u la tortsuk dem sé dem
Their topknots swaying back and forth—dem se dem,
dar gyi chöpen pururu
Tiaras of silk fluttering—pu ru ru,
lulen gar jé khyuk sé khyuk
Singing and dancing—khyuk se khyuk,
silnyen mangpo si li li
Many cymbals crashing—si li li,
gyencha mangpo trololo
Many ornaments jangling—tro lo lo,
rolmo mangpo di riri
Much music resounding—di ri ri,
pawö drodung trab sé trab
Heroes stepping and striding—trab se trab,
pa mö lulen kyururu
Heroines singing their songs—kyu ru ru,
yidam lhatsok ya la la
Hosts of deities appearing in flashes—ya la la,
khandroma tsok tib sé tib
Multitudes of ḍākinīs crowding together—tib se tib,
chökyong lejé khyuk sé khyuk
Dharma protectors carrying out activities—khyuk se khyuk,
shyub chen tong dra si li li
Legions of armor-clad marching—si li li,
lhasin dé gyé sha ra ra
The eight classes of gods and demons storming about—sha ra ra,
yé né po gyü tib sé tib
The masculine lineage amassing from the right—tib se tib,
yön nemo gyü tib sé tib
The feminine lineage gathering from the left—tib se tib,
pal gyi rutsön lhab sé lhab
The glorious divisional standards fluttering and waving—lhab se lhab,
khandrö da ké di riri
The symbolic language of the ḍākinīs filling the air—di ri ri,
pawö shukpa kyururu
The heroes whistling powerfully—kyu ru ru,
pamö gar jé shik sé shik
The heroines dancing gracefully—shik se shik,
hung gi nang lu di riri
The sounds of the hūṃ-syllable circulating—di ri ri,
pé kyi da ké sang sé sang
The symbolic call of phaṭ reverberating—sang se sang.
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings;
né chok diru jin pob la
Shower down your blessings on this supreme site;
drub chok dak la wang shyi kur
Confer the four empowerments on me, the supreme practitioner;
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Dispel the obstacles and the hindrances that lead one astray;
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Bestow the supreme and ordinary attainments!
om ah hung benza guru pema tötreng tsal benza samaya dza siddhi pala hung ah hrih maha ri ni
sara tsa hriya tsitta hrim hrim dza
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma tötrengtsal vajra samaya ja siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ hrīḥ ma ha ri ni
sa raca hriya citta hriṃ hriṃ ja
dza hung bam ho
ja hūṃ bam ho
Through chanting this, visualize that they roll in like billowing clouds.
1.2.2. Request to Remain
hung, rinchen podrang nyam ré ga
Hūṃ! The precious jewelled palace is so joyous,
durtrö shyalyé jin ré ché
The immeasurable mansion of the charnel ground is full of blessings,
pema dab shyi dang ré sal
The four-petalled lotus is resplendently clear,
tokmé roden bakré dro
The corpse seat devoid of discursiveness is cheerfully warm,
nyida tsekpa ö ré sal
The stacked sun and moon are luminous, and
shyukpé né su dang ré tro
The abode is brilliantly pleasurable.
guru yidam khandrö tsok
Hosts of guru, deities, and ḍākinīs,
gyé shing jin gyi lob chir shyuk
Please remain happily and bestow your blessings;
möpé bu la shyal ten tsal
Please reveal yourself to your longing children;
sung gi dampé né drak tsal
Please declare the vital instructions of the teachings;
tuk kyi gongpé go yé tsal
Please open your wisdom mind to us;
drowé döndu ku shyuk tsal
Please remain here for the sake of beings!
guru deva dakini samaya tishta lhen
guru deva ḍākinī samaya tiṣṭha lhen
Through this, the gurus, deities, ḍākinīs, and protectors are pleased and remain indivisibly.
1.2.3. Homage
emaho
Emaho!
kyegak gyurmé trinlé dzok
Unchanging, beyond arising and cessation, complete with the enlightened activities,
rangjung tukjé dro nam drol
You liberate beings with your natural compassion,
yishyin ngödrub char bebpé
And make wish-fulfilling accomplishments fall like rain,
tötreng tsal la chaktsal lo
Tötrengtsal, to you I pay homage.

trödral kunzang dechen mo
The Greatly Blissful Samantabhadrā free from elaborations,
dorjé men chik tsogyal yum
The sole vajra medicinal woman, mother Tsogyal,
detong nyimé tabshé jor
The inseparability of bliss and emptiness, the unification of method and wisdom—
yabyum nyimé chaktsal lo
The non-dual mother and father consorts, to you I pay homage.

jajé yi chö nampar dak
With completely pure action, agent, mind, and phenomena,
rangjung tukjé dro nam dul
You tame beings with your natural compassion,
wangchen tachok yabyum la
The Mighty One, the Supreme Stallion, Hayagrīva with your consort,
nyimé güpé chaktsal lo
To you I respectfully and non-dualistically pay homage.

nangwa yab la tongpa yum
Appearance is the father-consort and emptiness is the mother-consort;
khandro ging la chaktsal lo
The ḍākinīs and the warrior gings, to you I pay homage.
tamché chö kyi ying su rol
Enjoying all things in the sphere of phenomena, the dharmadhātu,
chösung tsok la chaktsal lo
The hordes of dharma protectors, to you I pay homage.
ati pu ho
ati pūho
pratitsa ho
pratīccha ho
Saying this, pay homage.
2. Consecrating and Presenting the Offerings
2.1. Consecrating the Offerings
om sobha wa bishuddhé sarva dhama sobhawa bishuddho hang
oṃ svabhāva viśuddhe sarvadharmāḥ svabhāva viśuddho haṃ
All offerings and substances are purified as they are emptiness.
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Reciting this three times greatly expands and multiplies the offerings.
bhenda shyalyé khang nang du
Inside a bhāṇḍha that is the immeasurable palace is
chü ni rik nga yabyum té
The essence of the father- and mother-consorts of the five buddha families.
jortsam changsem dütsir shyu
Bodhicitta nectar melts from the place of their union,
ching drol mepé rangshyin gyur
Its nature beyond bondage and liberation.
om ah hung sarva pentsa amrita hung hrih ta
oṃ āḥ hūṃ sarva pañca amṛta hūṃ hrīḥ ṭhā
Recite seven times.
om ah hung maha balingta tedzo balingta bala bate guhya samaya hung hri ta
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā baliṅta tejo baliṅta bala bate guhya samaya hūṃ hrīḥ ṭha
Recite three times.
torma döyön pungpor gyur
The ritual offering cake is transformed into an abundance of sensual pleasures.
om ah hung maha rakta dzola mandala hung hrih ta
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā rakta jvala maṇḍala hūṃ hrīh ṭha
Recite three times.
rakta changsem marpor gyur
The rakta is transformed into red bodhicitta.
om ah hung pupé dhupé aloké gendhé naiwidyé shabda pudza om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividye śabda pūjā oṃ āḥ hūṃ
om ah hung maha mamsa rakta kem niriti maha pentsa om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ mahā māmsa rakta kem ni ri ti mahā pañca Oṃ āḥ hūṃ
om ah hung bodhitsitta gana guhya pudza ho
oṃ āḥ hūṃ bodhicitta gaṇa guhya pūjā ho
With this, outer, inner, and secret offerings and substances are consecrated.
2.2. Presenting the Offerings
This section has three parts: 1) the general offering, 2) the particular offering, and 3) the
exceptional offering.
2.2.I. General Offering
The first section of the general offering is the outer offering:
hri, lama yidam khandro la
Hrīḥ! I present the outer offerings of divine substances
lhadzé chi chö bulwa ni
To the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
metok dukpö marmé dri
Flowers, incense, butter lamps, and perfumes,
shyalzé silnyen yi ong nam
Food, music, and all things visibly attractive
chen shang tukka ku lü dang
I present these offerings to your eyes, noses,
shyal dang nyen du chöpar bul
Hearts, bodies, mouths, and ears.
guru deva dakini pupé dhupé aloké gendhé niwidyé shabda pudza ho
guru deva ḍākinī puṣpe dhūpe āloke gandhe naividye śabda pūjā ho
The second section of the general offering is the inner offering:
hri, lama yidam khandro la
Hrīḥ! I present the natural inner offerings
rangjung nang chö bulwa ni
To the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
wangpo nam ngé metok chö
I offer flowers of the five sense faculties and
sur chen dukpö dri yi chö
The fragrances of incense and burnt-offering (sur) smoke.
shyün chen nangsal marmé chö
I offer illuminating lamps full of the great fat and
dorjé drichü jukpé chö
Anointed pungent liquid from the vajra.
dütsi drichen shyalzé chö
I offer nectar of the great odor as food and
kangling töpé ngadré chö
The wail of a thigh-bone trumpet and the beating of a skull drum.
duk sum ku sung tuk su chö
I offer the three poisons as the enlightened body, speech, and mind as well as
duk nga yeshe nga ru chö
The five poisons as the five primordial wisdoms.
nangsi chakgya shyi ru chö
I offer all of appearance and existence as the four mudrās.
nyisumepar tim gyur chik
All of which indivisibly dissolve.
guru deva dakini maha pentsa pudza ho
guru deva ḍākinī mahā pañca pūjā ho
The third section of the general offering is the secret offering:
hri, lama yidam khandro la
Hrīḥ! I present the inseparable secret offerings
nyimé sangchö bulwa ni
To the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
yabyum nyimé kha sang lé
From the secret center of the indivisible father- and mother-consorts
changsem kar mar dewé chok
Descends the supremely blissful white and red bodhicitta,
dewé ronyom chöpar bul
I present the fluid as an offering of the equal experience of bliss.
ku lü gyé chir shyé su sol
Please accept it to empower your enlightened bodies.
om ah hung guru deva dakini bodhitsitta gana guhya pudza ho
oṃ āḥ hūṃ guru deva ḍākinī bodhicitta gaṇa guhya pūjā ho
2.2.2. Particular Offering
The first section of the particular offering is the medicinal nectar offering:
om, lama yidam khandrö tsok ché la
Oṃ! To the gurus, deities, and the hosts of ḍākinīs
duk nga sel chir yeshe nga dzok dzé
I present pleasing offering of this sacramental substance,
damdzé dütsi chok gi nyé chö bul
The supreme ambrosial nectar.
tukjé tser gong wang dang ngödrub tsol
Look upon us with love and compassion and bestow the empowerments and accomplishments!
guru deva dakini sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
Guru deva ḍākinī sarva pañca amṛta kharam khāhi
And:
chöku nangwa tayé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Dharmakāya Amitābha—please partake!
longku tukjé chenpö shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the Great Compassionate One, Saṃbhogakāya
Avalokiteśvara—please partake!
tulku gyalwang pemé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the Lord of Conquerors, Nirmāṇakāya
Padmasambhava—please partake!
khandro yeshe tsogyal shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal—please partake!
drogön ngadak yabsé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of King Tri Songdetsen, the protectors
of beings, and his heirs—please partake!
chödak tertön chöwang shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the dharma custodian and treasure revealer
Guru Chöwang—please partake!
gyalsé mikyö dorjé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Gyalsé Mikyö Dorjé—please partake!
dak tön wangchuk dorjé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Daktön Wangchuk Dorjé—please partake!
nyentön yeshe dorjé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Nyentön Yeshé Dorjé—please partake!
sé ding sangye yabsé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of teacher Seding Sanggyé and heir—please
partake!
guru chöku özer shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Guru Chöku Öser—please partake!
tsungmé paljor wangchuk shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Tsungmé Paljor Wangchuk—please partake!
tulku chö kyi wangpö shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Tulku Chökyi Wangpo—please partake!
rigdzin karma gurü shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Rigdzin Karma Guru—please partake!
drubchen kunzang paljor shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of the Drubchen Kunsang Paljor—please
partake!
rigdzin trinlé lhündrub shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouth of Rigdzin Trinlé Lhündrub—please partake!
drinchen tsawé lamé shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the gracious root gurus—please partake!
yidam tapak yabyum shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the deities Hayagrīva and Vajravārāhī—please
partake!
rik ngé khandro yabyum shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the heroes and ḍākinīs of the five
buddha families—please partake!
magön damchen tersung shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of the mamo protectors possessing samaya
and the protectors of revealed treasures—please partake!
chöpar öpa nam kyi shyal du sarva pentsa amrita kha ram khahi
I offer the nectar of the five ambrosias to the mouths of all those worthy of veneration—please
partake!
It is permissible to elaborate and present the nectar to other exceptional beings in the lineage
for whom one has devotion.
The second section of the particular offering is the rakta offering:
ah, döchak namdak pema rakta di
Āḥ! This lotus rakta which completely purifies desire,
gyü druk kün drol kham sum wang du dü
Liberates the six types of transmigrators and subjugates the three realms.
demchok dé chö rakté chöpa di
This offering of rakta of sensual enjoyment and supreme bliss,
lama yidam khandrö tsok la bul
I offer to the hosts of gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs.
guru deva dakini maha rakta khahi
guru deva ḍākinī mahā rakta khāhi
The third section of the particular offering is the torma offering:
hung, jetsün lama shek su sol
Hūṃ! Venerable guru, please come forth.
dungwa drakpö soldeb shing
I pray to you through my fervent longing.
döyön nga yi chöpa bul
I present offerings of the five sense pleasures.
balim gyen gyi chöpa bul
I present offerings of ornamented tormas.
men rak dütsi chöpa bul
I present offerings of medicine, rakta, and nectar.
shyalzé tsok kyi chöpa bul
I present offerings of feasts.
tingdzin tsechik chöpa bul
I present the offering of single-pointed concentration.
lama rigdzin chöpa shyé
Gurus and knowledge holders, accept these offerings!
yidam lhatsok chöpa shyé
Multitudes of deities accept these offerings!
khandrö tsok nam chöpa shyé
Hosts of ḍākinīs, accept these offerings!
ging gi tsok nam chöpa shyé
Gangs of warrior gings, accept these offerings!
pawö tsok nam chöpa shyé
Assemblies of heroes, accept these offerings!
pamö tsok nam chöpa shyé
Leagues of heroines, accept these offerings!
naljor pomo dam ré tsang
The samaya of the yogins and yoginīs is so pure!
khandrö tsok nam dang ré tro
The hosts of ḍākinīs are so enraptured!
durtrö né chok nyam ré ga
The charnel grounds and supreme sites are so delightful!
shying chen ladré gyen dangden
They are ornamented with canopies of human skin
sha na nying na sam mikhyab
And contain an inconceivable array of flesh and hearts.
tro gé né kyi chöpa shyé
Accept these offerings of sources of delight!

hung, nangwa nö kyi jikten torshyong du
Hūṃ! Upon the torma plate, the apparent universe of appearances,
sipa chü kyi semchen tormar jar
Sits the torma, all the sentient beings in existence.
pal gyi torma jiden gyingwa di
This glorious and magnificent torma, poised so majestically,
rirab lhünpo bé kyang pang ré to
Even Mount Meru does not compare in size!
mamö torma pemé korwa di
This torma of the mamos is surrounded by lotuses,
ling shyi ling trenwé kyang kö ré lek
Not even the continents and subcontinents are so finely arranged!
kar gyi tik tab mar gyi gur pubpa
The torma is decorated with white lines and red parasols,
ser gyi ri dünwé kyang ji ré ché
Not even the seven golden mountains are as splendid!
rakta mar gyi argham drengwa di
The sprinkling of the red rakta is an offering of drinking water,
gyatsö ching namwé kyang gya ré ché
Not even the center of the ocean is as vast!
dütsi men gyi tormar drenpa di
This torma is saturated with medicinal nectar,
lha yi shyalzé bé kyang ro ré da
Not even the food of the deities is as delicious in taste!
kar tsi mar tsi sha chen drichen dang
The torma is anointed with white essence, red essence, great flesh, great odor,
drichu jukpé dzé té nampa nga
And pungent liquid—these are its five nectars.
sengé langchen ta dangwa lang dang
The meat of a lion, elephant, horse, cow, and
chok chen mi lasok té nampa nga
Human, which is the most supreme—these are the five meats.
maha mamsa lasok sha na tong
The mahāmāṃsa and a thousand other meats,
maha tsitta lasok nying na tong
The mahācitta and a thousand other hearts,
wangpo nga dang go rotsa na dang
The five sense organs, gorocana,
basuta dang nangtrol nampa nga
Basuta, and the five internal organs,
shingtok metok dru na men na tong
Thousands of fruits, flowers, various grains, and many medicines,
zen dang khurwa tukpé jedrak dang
Dough, various kinds of fried pastries, and soups,
mar tü trum dang shyo dang omar ché
Along with butter, confectionaries of roasted barley with butter, cheese and sugar,
tsi dang tsa ru tsi chen go nyö dang
Curd, yogurt, and milk, herbs, chātaru, the Indian spice asafoetida, cumin herb,
ga dang lentsa pö kyi jedrak dang
Varieties of turmeric, rock salt, and seasonings,
ri gok lung gok shamo natsok dang
Wild garlic from the mountains and valleys, assortments of mushrooms,
za dang chawa tungwé jedrak dang
Various foods and drinks,
zuk dra dri ro rekja chö lasok
Different kinds of phenomena: mental objects, forms, sounds, smells, tastes, and tangible objects,
döyön nga yi chöpa natsok kün
All the varieties of offerings of the five sensory desires,
tokmé lo yi tamché kün dü né
I gather them all easily with my mind.
tingdzin gonggyü dakpé jinlab té
Bless this torma with your pure and stable wisdom mind;
dütsir gyurpé torma chenpo di
With this great torma that has been transmuted into nectar,
dorjé lobpön tukdam kong gyur chik
Fulfill the wishes of the vajra master and
yidam lhatsok tukdam kong gyur chik
The wishes of the hosts of deities!
khandro dé shyi tukdam kong gyur chik
Fulfill the wishes of the four classes of ḍākinīs and
pawo ging shyi tukdam kong gyur chik
The wishes of the four warrior gings!
damchen sungmé tukdam kong gyur chik
Fulfill the wishes of the dharma protectors and
chöpar öpé tukdam kong gyur chik
The wishes of all those worthy of veneration!
guru deva dakini maha balingta khahi
guru deva ḍākinī mahā baliṅta khāhi
Offer this way, combining it with the seventh chapter of the appendix.
2.2.3. Exceptional Feast Offering
Arrange the necessary items for the feast offering and anoint them with the nectar.
om sarva drabjam shodhani hung pé
oṃ sarva dravyaṃ śodhani hūṃ phaṭ
Thus, all is cleansed.
hung, rangnyi lha yi tukka né
Hūṃ! I am the deity, from my heart
tsokkhor jang chir yigé tro
The syllables emanate to purify the feast offerings.
ram, ram lé mé jung ngödzin sek
Raṃ! Fire arises from raṃ and burns away fixation.
yam, yam lé lung jung bakchak tor
Yaṃ! Wind arises from yaṃ and blows away subtle habitual patterns.
kham, kham lé chu jung nyidzin trü
Khaṃ! Water arises from khaṃ and washes away dualistic grasping.
hung, rangnyi lha yi tukka né
Hūṃ! I am the deity, from my heart
jin gyi lobpé yigé tro
The blessing syllables emanate.
hung, hung gi nampar tokpa jang
Hūṃ! Hūṃ purifies discursive thinking.
a, ah yi yeshe dütsir gyur
Āḥ! Āḥ transforms the feast into primordial wisdom nectar.
om, om gyi döyön nangsi gang
Oṃ! Oṃ fills apparent existence with sensory enjoyments.
hri, hri yi tong nang lhatsok gyé
Hrīḥ! Hrīḥ makes visible appearance delightful to the deities.
om ah hung hri
oṃ āḥ hūṃ hrīḥ
The feast offerings are consecrated through the mantra.
The vajra activity master takes and presents the offering substances to the vajra master.
ho, zik shik dzeden dampé chö
Ho! Look here! The excellent doctrine is endowed with beauty,
di la tetsom jar mi rung
Do not be doubtful of it.
dramzé dolpa khyi dang pak
Know that flesh of brāhmaṇs, outcasts, dogs, and pigs,
rangshyin chik tu gong té rol
Are of one nature, so enjoy!
Saying this, serve the feast.
The vajra master performs the lotus mudrā first.
rintang mé lé lek ong chö
The invaluable doctrine has graciously come
döchak drima nampar dak
And has thoroughly purified the stains of desire.
zung dang dzinpa künpang pé
I am thatness
deshyin nyi ni dak kyang tsal
Which has abandoned all subject-object fixation.
Thus, the vajra master accepts the food. In this way, conceptualization is eliminated. Divide
the primary feast offerings into three portions and offer the first portion.
hung, dewar shek so chomdendé
Hūṃ! To the sugatas, the blessed ones,
sangye kün gyi daknyi ché
The great lord of all the buddhas,
lama yidam khandro la
Gurus, devas, and ḍākinīs,
shyalzé tsok kyi chöpa bul
I present the offering of this feast!
ku sung tuk kyi ngödrub tsol
Bestow the accomplishments of body, speech, and mind!
guru deva dakini gana tsatra pudza khahi
Guru deva ḍākinī gaṇacakra pūjā khāhi
With this, offer.
Recite the confession:
hung, ngön jung dü né danté bar
Hūṃ! From former times through to the present,
marik dak lü ngak sem kyi
Due to non-recognition, with my body, speech, and mind
tsawa yenlak damnyam pa
I have impaired the root and branch samayas;
döyön tsok kyi chöpé shak
Through these offerings of the feast of the sensory enjoyments, I confess!
benza samaya a
vajra samaya a
With this, confess.
Perform the liberation.
Visualize and dissolve the consciousness into the feast dough or an effigy, while holding the
kīla which appears as Yakṣa Khroda. Aim the kīla and recite the following:
hung, chemchok pema tötreng tsal
Hūṃ! I am Pema Tötrengtsal, great and supreme.
chak yé dorjé tsé nga deng
Brandishing a five-pronged vajra in the right hand,
yönpa purbü dra nying zir
I pierce the heart of the enemy with the kīla in the left hand,
nöjé pomo dul du lok
And grind male and female maleficent beings to dust.
om benza guru pema tötreng tsal
oṃ vajra guru padma tötrengtsal
benza samaya dza
vajra samaya jaḥ
nri tri sha trün dragek jungpo maraya hung hung pé pé a yam bé
nṛ tri śā trun dra gek jung po māraya hūṃ hūṃ phaṭ phaṭ a yaṃ bed
Thus, perform the liberation with the intention of purifying the life.
guru dewa dakini dra gek kyi sha trak rü pa la kharam khahi
guru deva ḍākinī dra gek kyi sha trak rü pa la kharam khāhi
bhindhaya bhindhaya hung pé
bhindha ya bhindha ya hūṃ phaṭ
Present the meat, blood, and nectar into the palm of the hand.
2. Reciting the Essence Mantra
The second main section has two parts: 1) the enlightened intent of the recitation and 2) the
concluding fulfilment.
2.1. The Enlightened Intent of the Recitation
nangsi shyalyé lama lha
Appearances and all of existence, the immeasurable palace,
tamché chakgyé kyilkhor ché
Gurus, and deities are the great maṇḍala of the mudrā of everything.
per na chuda jatsön tar
Just like a rainbow and the moon’s reflection on water,
nang la rangshyin mepar gom
Contemplate that appearances are devoid of their own nature.
Understand this as the vitality of the view of the wisdom mind. With fervent devotion, single-pointedly
recite the mantra with the guru on the crown of one’s head.
om ah hung benza guru pema siddhi hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma siddhi hūṃ
For a short while, recite the mantra in the manner of a supplication (sing the mantra).
Receive the four empowerments conjoined with the key points of visualization.
om ah hung benza guru pema tötreng tsal benza samaya dza siddhi pala hung a
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra guru padma tötrengtsal vajra samaya jaḥ siddhi phala hūṃ āḥ
Recite this as much as possible.
At the end, the guru dissolves into you, and you clearly manifest as Pema Tötrengtsal. Recite
the following with a one-pointed mind centered on a divine pride.
shamé ö kyi zukchen ni
This immaterial body of mine, made of light,
pema jungné ku ru gom
Is the form of Pema Tötrengtsal.
Knowing it to be so is the way of accomplishment.
rang gi tukké ö kyi rik shyi tötreng kulwé dé lé rang dré trulpa dang özer khakhyab tu tröpé
trinlé nam shyi gang döpa dé drubpar gyur
Light rays emanate from my heart and invoke the Tötrengtsal deities of the four buddha families,
causing the emanations, which are like myself, to project light rays that pervade throughout
space. Through this, know that the four enlightened activities and whatever is desired
is accomplished.
hrih ma ha ri ni sa ratsa hriya tsitta hring hring dza sarva siddhi shanting pushtim pasham
maraya bé
hrīḥ ma ha ri ni sa racha rāja hriya citta hring hring jaḥ sarva siddhi śāntim puṣṭam wāsham
māraya bed
Recite each for a short while. This is the way of enacting the activities.
2.2. Fulfilment
2.2.1. Fulfilment of the Enlightened Body by Utilizing Substances
Arrange all the offering substances and carry the butter lamps and nectar, in particular, as
you circumambulate the maṇḍala.
2.2.2. Fulfilment of the Enlightened Speech with Words of Confession
hung, durtrö sangwa chok gi kyilkhor dir
Hūṃ! In this maṇḍala of the supreme, secret charnel ground,
sangwé kyilkhor shyung shyin sham né kyang
The secret maṇḍala is arranged according to the text.
drubdzé nyenpo shyung shyin tram lak na
When all the powerful substances of accomplishment are laid out accordingly,
lama yidam khandrö tukdam nyen kang té
The sacred bonds of the gurus, deities, and ḍākinīs have been fulfilled.
naljor dak gi yardam sor tsol chik
Restore the commitments back to me, the yogin!
om rulu rulu hung jo hung
oṃ rulu rulu hūṃ bhyo hūṃ
Recite this three times and also practice further stages of fulfilment and confession.
2.2.3. Fulfilment of the Enlightened Mind by Utilizing the View
künshyi machö long yang né
From the spacious expanse of the unaltered ground of all,
rangrig rangsal kuntuzang
Intrinsic aware and self-luminous Samantabhadra and
döné makyé kunzang mo
Primordially unborn Samantabhadrā
nyimé dewa chenpo la
Within the non-dual great bliss,
kang dang shakja shakpé yul
The things that will be fulfilled, the actions that will be confessed, and the object towards
which one confesses
namdak trödral chö kyi ku
Are the completely pure dharmakāya that is free from elaboration.
chö kyi ku la nyisumé
The dharmakāya is indivisible;
nyimé tokpé tukdam kang
By realizing that indivisibility, I fulfill the sacred bonds.
detar tok na kong shak chok
Realization like that is the supreme fulfilment and confession.
3. Accomplishing the Enlightened Activities
Generate the Tötrengtsal deities of the five buddha families as before. Complete all the recitations
that enact the activities, but in particular, combine this practice with the clarifications
found in the Seven-Day Whispered Transmission (Nyengyü Shakdün) practice [of Guru
Chöwang].
4. Maintaining the Wisdom Mind
All conventional and ultimate phenomena of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are suchness since the fundamental
nature of the deities and the immeasurable palace has been complete since the beginning.
That is just the way it is, devoid of elaborations. In the end, also perform prayers
for enhancement.
5. The Arising of the Signs
This is to recognize the warmth of signs of progress.
6. Receiving the Accomplishment Substances
It is sufficient to recite the secret mantra briefly along with the additional syllables while
focusing on the accomplishment substances that are before you.
III. CONCLUSION
1. Generating Pure Vision
This means to generate pure vision by means of strong, unbearable, and fervent devotion towards
the guru, who is the embodiment of all sources of refuge.
2. Offering Praises and Presenting the Initial Offerings
This section has three parts: 1) offerings, 2) praises and exhortation, and 3) additional activities.
2.1. Offerings
Offer the torma, medicinal nectar, and rakta as taught.
hung, damdzé tor chen shampa yang
Hūṃ! These arranged excellent substances and the great torma,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
dütsi men chö drengwa yang
The arranged medicinal nectar offering,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
bhenda rakté kangwa yang
The bhāṇḍha of rakta,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
durtrö dzé chen trampa yang
The full array of great substances of the charnel grounds,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
kangling tö nga drokpa yang
The resounding thigh bone trumpet and the skull drum,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
shyün chen nangsal tampa yang
The lamps full of the great fat,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
mam sé sur dü tongwa yang
The smoke of burnt māmsa,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
döyön ro chok pungpa yang
Heaps of desirous offerings of a supreme experience,
ma dang khandro ten chir bul
I offer to serve all mamos and ḍākinīs.
tukdam nyenpo kong gyur chik
Fulfill the crucial sacred bonds!
yardam nyamchak sor tsol chik
Restore the degenerated and broken pledges!
guru deva dakini maha balingta khahi
guru deva ḍākinī mahā baliṅta khāhi
maha pentsa amrita khahi
mahā pañca amṛta khāhi
maha rakta kha kha khahi khahi
mahā rakta kha kha khāhi khāhi
ho, damdzé chöpa didak kün
Ho! All of these excellent offering substances,
nyimé nyampé ngang du bul lak na
I offer in a non-dual state of equalness.
langdor mepé tsul gyi shyé né kyang
Take these in a way that is beyond accepting and rejecting.
timpé tsul gyi gyepa chenpor rol
Enjoy them in great happiness simply by absorbing them.
Offer in that manner.
2.2. Praises and Exhortation
2.2.1. Praises
hung hri, machö trödral lama chö kyi ku
Hūṃ Hrīḥ! The dharmakāya guru is unaltered and free from elaborations;
dechen longchö lama chö kyi jé
The saṃbhogakāya guru of great bliss is the lord of dharma;
pedong lé trung lama trulpé ku
The nirmāṇakāya guru was born from a lotus;
ku sum dorjé chang la chaktsal tö
I pay homage and offer praises to the vajra holder of the three enlightened bodies!

ku ni mingyur kuntuzangpö ku
Your body is the unchanging body of Samantabhadra;
sung ni mingak nyamnyi rigpé sung
Your speech is that of the unceasing equalness of pure awareness;
tuk ni mi yo ma sam jö lé dé
Your mind is unwavering, beyond speech, imagination, and expression;
ku sung tukden pema gyal la tö
I praise the Lotus King who possesses the enlightened body, speech, and mind!

drowé döndu rangjung öpakmé
Unfathomable natural light that benefits beings and
tashi yönten dumé gyenpé ku
An ornamented body of various auspicious enlightened qualities,
jikten nga gyur pema gyalpö sé
The master of the world, the heir of the King of the Lotus,
dorjé tötreng tsal la chaktsal tö
I pay homage and offer praises to Dorjé Tötrengtsal!
shyiwé lé dzé dorjé tötreng tsal
Enacting the peaceful activities—Vajra Tötrengtsal,
gyepé lé dzé ratna tötreng tsal
Enacting the enriching activities—Ratna Tötrengtsal,
wang gi lé dzé pema tötreng tsal
Enacting the magnetizing activities—Lotus Tötrengtsal,
drakpö lé dzé karma tötreng tsal
Enacting the wrathful activities—Karma Tötrengtsal,
tamché lhündrub buddha tötreng tsal
Enacting the activities that spontaneously accomplish everything—Buddha Tötrengtsal,
trinlé dzokpé jé la chaktsal tö
I pay homage and offer praises to the Lord that completes all activities!

hri, ma chak kyön gyi magöpé
Hrīḥ! To Padmākara, who is without attachment and untainted by faults,
pema jungné ku la tö
I offer praise!

yönten tamché rabdzok pé
To Padmasambhava, in whom all enlightened qualities are perfected,
pemasambhé ku la tö
I offer praise!

sheja kün la mamongpé
To Loden Choksé, who is knowledgeable in all that can be known,
loden choksé ku la tö
I offer praise!

kham sum si sum wang du dü
To the Lotus King, who is the conqueror of the three realms and the three existences,
pema gyalpö ku la tö
I offer praise!

mongpé münsel drowa dul
To Nyima Öser, who is the dispeller of the darkness of ignorance and the tamer of beings,
nyima özer ku la tö
I offer praise!

lokdren dü shyi dul dzepé
To Śākya Sengé, who is the subjugator of the four māras that lead one astray,
shakya sengé ku la tö
I offer praise!

mutek damsi dul dzepé
To Senggé Dradrok, who is the subduer of the tīrthikas and oath-breakers,
sengé dradrok ku la tö
I offer praise!

drekpé dragek tsarchöpé
To Dorjé Drolö, who is the destroyer of haughty enemies and obstructors,
dorjé drolö ku la tö
I offer praise!

hri, nangwa ma gak tukjé chenpö ku
Hrīḥ! To the powerful Hayagrīva, who is the form of great compassion, unceasing in appearance,
tamdrin wang gi ku la chaktsal tö
I pay homage and offer praise!

kyemé namdak chöying dakpé long
To Vajravārāhī, who is the completely pure expanse of the unborn space of all phenomena,
dorjé pakmo yum la chaktsal tö
I pay homage and offer praise!

kyegak nyisumepé khaying lé
To the assemblies of heroes and ḍākinīs, who come from expansive space
tukjé ma gak chiryang tön ching gyur
That is devoid of arising and cessation and who are the unceasing compassion
pawo khandrö tsok chaktsal tö
That displays and transforms into anything whatsoever, I pay homage and offer praise!
damchen sungmé tsok la chaktsal tö
To the assemblies of oath-bound protectors, I pay homage and offer praise!
With this, offer praise.
2.2.2. Exhortation
hung, ma yel ma yel rigdzin tsok
Hūṃ! Assemblies of knowledge-holders do not be distracted, pay attention!
ma yel ma yel khandrö tsok
Hosts of ḍākinīs do not wander about, do not neglect us!
ma yel ma yel ging gi tsok
Gangs of warrior gings do not be heedless, pay attention!
ma yel ma yel damchen tsok
Groups of oath-holders do not be careless, be observant!
jetsün pema tötreng tsal
Venerable Pema Tötrengtsal,
rangshyin né né ku kyö la
Rouse yourself from your natural state!
khandrö tsok dang shek su sol
Hosts of ḍākinīs come here!
ging gi tsok dang shek su sol
Gangs of warrior gings come here!
pawö tsok dang shek su sol
Multitudes of heroes come here!
pamö tsok dang shek su sol
Masses of heroines come here!
damchen tsok dang shek su sol
Bands of oath-bound ones come here!
chö kyi ying né ku kyö la
Rouse yourself from the space of phenomena—
dorjé pakmö jingyi lob
Vajravārāhī, bless us!
durtrö né né ku kyö la
Rouse yourselves from the charnel grounds—
khandro ging shyi jingyi lob
Four classes of ḍākinīs and gings, bless us!
namkhé ying né ku kyö la
Rouse yourselves from the expanse of space—
dorjé tramen jingyi lob
Various headed Vajra Tramen deities, bless us!
gyatsö ling né ku kyö la
Rouse yourselves from your islands—
tso ling khandrö jingyi lob
Islander ḍākinīs, bless us!
chok shyi né né ku kyö la
Rouse yourselves from the abodes of the four directions—
lejé khandrö jingyi lob
Ḍākinīs who carry out the activities, bless us!
gangkar tsé né ku kyö la
Rouse yourselves from the peaks of the snow mountains—
dorjé ging chen jingyi lob
Great vajra gings, bless us!
né chok diru jin pob la
Shower down your blessings on this supreme site;
drub chok dak la wang shyi kur
Confer the four empowerments upon me, the supreme practitioner;
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Disperse the obstructors and hindrances that lead us astray;
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Bestow the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!

hung hung, lhonub ngayab ling tren na
Hūṃ Hūṃ! On the southwestern subcontinent of Cāmaradvīpa
pema ö kyi shyalyé khang
Is the immeasurable Palace of Lotus Light;
né chok dampa nyam ré ga
The supremely superb site is so delightful!
né chok nyam su mi ga ru
In the pleasantness of the supreme site
jetsün pema tötreng dang
Is the reverend Pema Tötrengtsal and
khandro yeshe tsogyal nyi
The ḍākinī Yeshé Tsogyal.
kyechi mepé kur shyeng né
You have bodies devoid of birth and death and
sinpo nam la damchö tön
Teach the excellent doctrine to the rakṣasas.
khandro dé shyi khor gyi kor
You are surrounded by a retinue of the four classes of ḍākinīs.
ging chen dé shyi dren du khol
The four classes of great gings are bound to your service.
lhasin dé gyé ponyar gyé
You send forth the eight classes of gods and rākṣasas as your messengers.
dong mar sinpo tab kyi dul
You subdue the red-faced rākṣasas with your skillful means.
u la rinchen gyen gyi gyen
Your heads are adorned with jewel ornaments.
rüpé gyencha tra la la
Your bone ornaments jangle—tra la la,
silnyen mangpo si li li
Countless cymbals crash resoundingly—si li li,
gyencha mangpo pu ru ru
Abundant ornaments clatter and shake—pu ru ru,
rolmo mangpo di ri ri
Sweet-sounding music resonates loudly—di ri ri,
lulen gar jé khyuk sé khyuk
And there is singing and dancing—khyuk se khyuk.
khyé kyi jesu dak drub kyi
As I practice in your footsteps,
jin gyi lob chir shek su sol
Please come forth to bestow your blessings.
né chok diru jin pob la
Shower down your blessings on this supreme site;
drub chok dak la wang shyi kur
Confer the four empowerments on me, the supreme practitioner;
gek dang lokdren barché sol
Dispel the obstacles and the hindrances that lead one astray;
chok dang tünmong ngödrub tsol
Bestow the supreme and ordinary accomplishments!
shyi gyé wang drak soso yi
Pacifying, enriching, magnetizing, destroying—
trinlé nyurdu khyé kyi drub
You must quickly accomplish these activities!
dralwé shying chu khyö kyi drol
You must liberate all beings possessing the ten grounds of liberation;
sangye tenpa khyé kyi sung
You must protect the Buddhist teachings!
könchok upang khyé kyi tö
You must praise the glorious Three Supreme Jewels;
naljor ku dra khyé kyi tul
You must destroy the enemies of the yogins!
lha dré mi sum khyé kyi dü
You must subdue gods, demons, and humans;
jung shyi barché khyé kyi sol
You must dispel the hindrances of the four elements!
duk ngé namtok shyiwar dzö
Pacify the discursive concepts of the five poisons!
2.3. Additional Activities
2.3.1. Feast Substances
ho, tsok kyi chöpa gyen du rol
Ho! Enjoy the ornamented offerings of the feast—
a la la ho
a la la ho!
Distribute the feast to the whole assembly beginning with the master. Then enjoy the substances
as an inner fire offering. Gather the remainders to one side for the vajra master to consecrate
with the samaya spitting ritual.
hung, dangpo pü kyi mi chö du
Hūṃ! The first portion of the remainders has not been eaten,
pema heruka pü kyi dak
The lord Padma Heruka is the master of the first portion.
bardu lhakmé mi chö du
The second portion of the remainders has not been eaten,
ma dang khandro lhak la gyé
The mamos and ḍākinīs take delight in this remainder.
tama chik tu mi sé ru
The last portion hasn’t been mixed,
nyimé chöku chik lé jung
It arises from the single, non-dual dharmakāya.

hung, chomden pema heruka
Hūṃ! The Blessed One—Padma Heruka
yumchen dorjé pakmo la
The Great Mother—Vajravārāhī
ka yi lhak dü tsok kyi kor
The gathered remainders of the command are
lhakmé tsok la rolpa nam
Surrounded by those who enjoy the remainders,
dir jön ka yi lhaktor shyé
Come here and accept the remainder torma of the command and
cholwé trinlé drubpar dzö
Accomplish your entrusted enlightened activities!
Thus, cast the torma outside.
2.3.2. Covenant (Chéto)
Take the tormas of the dharma protectors from the rows of tormas, consecrate them, and dedicate
them for this purpose.
hung jo, ngöntsé dé dü kalpa dangpo la
Hūṃ Bhyo! In previous lifetimes, in the first eon,
womin né chok dechen podrang du
In the palace of great bliss in the supreme abode of Akaniṣṭha
chomden palchen pema heruké
The greatly glorious Blessed One, Padma Heruka,
také teng sum drak né mamo tul
Subdued the mamos with three resounding horse’s neighs.
tatsik sum gyi dam latak pé tsé
He bound them in their oaths and made them vow three times.
dorjé pakmo lasok khandro jewa gyé
At that time, tens of millions of ḍākinīs, including Vajravārāhī,
sosö zuk chok dampa ten né kyang
Displayed each of their excellent and supreme forms.
yal gamchen la ngödrub tsolwa dang
Did you not agree to bestow accomplishments to those who have pledges?
ka yi torma lenpar ma ché dam
Did you not agree to accept the torma of the command?
cholwé trinlé drubpar ma ché dam
Did you not agree to accomplish the enlightened activities that were entrusted to you?
ngöntsé shyalshyé dam la madawar
Do not transgress the pledges that you made previously,
sha trak gyenpé torma di shyé la
Accept this torma that is ornamented with flesh and blood, and
tukdam gyü kul cholpé trinlé dzö
Invoke the sacred bond and accomplish the entrusted enlightened activities!

dé ok bar gyi kalpa ü ma la
Thereafter, in the middle of the intermediate eon,
drak mar samyé aryapa ling du
At Aryapa Ling, the Noble Place on the Red Cliff by Samyé,
lobpön chenpo pema jungné dang
The great master Padmākara and
sherab yumchen khar chen tsogyal gyi
The great wisdom mother Tsogyal of Kharchen
wangchen yongdzok kyilkhor shyal ché tsé
Opened the completely perfect maṇḍala of the Mighty One.
durtrö nepé khandro dé nga dang
At that time, the five classes of ḍākinīs abiding in the charnel grounds and
drekpa dé gyé tenma chunyi kyi
The twelve Tenma goddesses of the eight classes of haughty ones
sosö zuk chok dampa ten né kyang
Displayed their excellent and supreme forms.
yal gamchen la ngödrub tsolwa dang
Did you not agree to bestow accomplishments to those who have pledges?
ka yi torma lenpar ma ché dam
Did you not agree to accept the torma of the command?
cholwé trinlé drubpar ma ché dam
Did you not agree to accomplish the enlightened activities that were entrusted to you?
ngöntsé shyalshyé dam la madawar
Do not transgress the pledges that you made previously,
sha trak gyenpé torma di shyé la
Accept this torma that is ornamented with flesh and blood, and
tukdam gyü kul cholpé trinlé dzö
Invoke the sacred bond and accomplish the entrusted enlightened activities!
dé ok kalpa tamé dü kyi tsé
Thereafter, at the time of the last eon,
ngayab ling tren zangdok palri tser
On the peak of the Copper-Colored Mountain on Cāmaradvīpa,
lobpön chenpo pema tötreng dang
The master Pema Tötrengtsal,
rigdzin chö wang langké tsok ché kyi
The knowledge-holder Chöwang, and those from Laṅka
sangwa drubchen kyilkhor shyal ché tsé
Opened the maṇḍala of the great secret practice.
sé lang khandro kadö drolging shyi
At that time, the rhino-headed ḍākinīs and ox-headed ḍākinīs, the assistants of liberation,
the four gings,
damchen gyatso chökyong sungma yi
The ocean of oath-bound ones, dharma protectors, and guardians
sosö zuk chok dampa ten né kyang
Displayed their excellent and supreme forms.
yal gamchen la ngödrub tsolwa dang
Did you not agree to bestow accomplishments upon those who have pledges?
ka yi torma lenpar ma ché dam
Did you not agree to accept the torma of the command?
cholwé trinlé drubpar ma ché dam
Did you not agree to accomplish the enlightened activities that were entrusted to you?
ngöntsé shyalshyé dam la madawar
Do not transgress the pledges that you made previously,
sha trak gyenpé torma di shyé la
Accept this torma that is ornamented with flesh and blood, and
tukdam gyü kul cholpé trinlé dzö
Invoke the sacred bond and accomplish the entrusted enlightened activities!
Offer the torma in a clean area.
2.3.3. Maintaining the Oath of the Tenma Goddesses by Utilizing Cleansing Water
tenma kyong dzé ma dang sing
The protecting mamos and sisters!
pal né ma dang yangdak shé
Palnema and Yangdak Shé,
khyung tsün kong lha yu bün ma
Khyungtsünma, Kongtsün Lhamo, and Yubünma
metok da ö jang gyalma
Metok, Da Ö, and Jang Gyalma,
ser tang kunzang shanting pal
Sertang, Künsang, and Śāntim Pal,
lumo zibar lasokpé
Lumo Sibar, and so forth.
tenma chunyi torma long
Twelve Tenma Goddesses, take this torma!
mitün nöpé chok nam dok
Avert all forms of harm and adversity!
om ah hung benza amrita khahi
oṃ āḥ hūṃ vajra amṛta khāhi
mama hring mama hring khahi khahi
ma ma hring ma ma hring khāhi khāhi
Saying this retains the Tenma.
Dance of Hayagrīva
While flipping the torma plate upside down, summon the enemies and obstructors under the plate.
Suppress them with the Hayagrīva dance.
hung hri, ta yi tulshyuk chenpo ni
Hūṃ hrīḥ! As the great yogic observance of Hayagrīva,
daknyi chenpö kur gom té
I visualize myself as the Mighty One!
shying chu dralpé pungpo la
To the aggregates of the ten objects of liberation,
tum chen ngampé dra drok ching
I proclaim monstrously and magnificently fierce sounds:
wangchen také tsé reré
The neighing of the Mighty One—tse re re,
trowö drodung u ru ru
The dances of the wrathful—u ru ru ,
pal gyi také di riri
The glorious neighing—di ri ri,
rolpé tadro chem sé chem
The playful horse dance—chem se chem,
sangwé shukpa kyururu
The secret and powerful whistling—kyu ru ru,
kalpé lok mar jib sé jib
The red lightning at the end of an eon—jib se jib,
dorjé tok beb lam sé lam
The clapping of thunder—lam se lam.
hung gi wanggyur kham sum yo
With hūṃ, the three realms are overpowered and sway.
pé kyi trulpé jikten khyab
With phaṭ, emanations fill the world.
ram gyi mebar tamché sek
With raṃ, fire blazes forth and burns through everything.
chenzen mukha trin tar tib
Beasts, with open mouths, amass like clouds.
kangka dab chak kar tar truk
[Charnel ground] kangka birds and winged creatures gather like a cluster of stars.
ngön gyi tukdam kangwé chir
To fulfill the previous sacred bonds,
kuntuzangpö khaying su
In the expansive space of Samantabhadrā
kham sum yong drol dzepé tsé
The three realms are completely liberated.
zajé chenpö kyilkhor du
At that time, in the maṇḍala of the great devourer
duk nga düpé pungpo la
On the amassed five poisons,
chenzen chenpö dro dungpé
The pulverizing dance of the great beast
dak tu tawé shyedang chom
Destroys the hatred which stems from the view of self.
traktung chenpö kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the great blood drinker,
rakté gyatso khyilpa la
In the swirling ocean of rakta,
ma tsok daki dro dungpé
The crushing dance of the mamos and ḍākinīs
küntu shyenpé döchak chom
Destroys desire and attachment.
ngam chen trukpé kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the great and glorious battle,
timuk sha chen pungpa la
On the heap of human flesh, which is delusion,
der chak düpé dro dungpé
The pulverizing dance which gathers the winged predators
mongpé timuk ngowo chom
Destroys the delusion which stems from unknowing.
tum chen tröpé kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the greatly fierce wrathful one
wangpo yenlak dzokpa la
On sense faculties and limbs,
shokpa dorjé dro dungpé
The pulverizing dance of the vajra wings
küntu mongpé trakdok chom
Destroys envy which stems from ignorance.
jikjé chenpö kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the great demolisher,
ü kyi trikang dumpo la
Upon the circular [lion] throne in its center
dorjé chu yi dro dungpé
The pulverizing dance of the vajra lips
dak tu dzinpé ngagyal chom
Destroys pride which stems from grasping at a self.
ku sung tuk kyi kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the enlightened body, speech, and mind
duk sum jompé lé jepé
With the activities that destroy the three poisons,
ngön gyi damtsik chenpo kong
The great samayas of the past are restored.
ma tsok daki kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the mamos and ḍākinīs
ten gen trulpé lé jepé
With the activities of the emanation of Tanagaṇa, or Liberation and Sexual Union,
naljor kongwé choga dzok
The rituals that fulfill yoga are complete.
wangchen gar gyi kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the dancing Mighty One,
dü shyi jompé lé jepé
With the activities which destroy the four māras,
kham sum dralwé choga dzok
The rituals that liberate the three realms are complete.
chaknyen chenpö kyilkhor du
In the maṇḍala of the great assistants,
ka dé dralwé lé jepé
With the activities that liberate the transgressions of the commands,
ru dra nenpé choga dzok
The rituals that suppress Rudra are complete.
om benza krodha siddhi hung
oṃ vajra krodha siddhi hūṃ
om benza krodha ha ya driwa huluhulu hung pé
oṃ vajra krodha hayagrīva hulu hulu hūṃ phaṭ
Say this together with the pulverizing dance.
On occasion, when doing the torma empowerment, bestow it in the manner explained in The Single
Page of Crucial Points.
2.3.4. Receiving the Accomplishments
Visualize the torma as the deity and offer it. Having offered praises, invoke the sacred bond
with the mantra.
demchok dé chö namkhé kyil yang né
From the open center of the enjoyably and supremely blissful sky arise the
gyalwé kyilkhor sé ché tukdam chen
The heirs of the maṇḍalas of the victors who possess the sacred commitments.
benza guru pema tötreng gi
Vajra Guru Pema Tötrengtsal’s supreme accomplishments
ku sung tuk dang nyamjor ngödrub chok
That are connected with his enlightened body, speech, and mind, as well as
trinlé nam shyi lhün gyi drubpé pal
The glorious and spontaneously accomplished four enlightened activities
bumpa zang dang paksam norbü tsul
Appear in the manner of a high-quality vase and a wish-granting jewel.
danta nyi du dak la tsal du sol
Please bestow these upon me this instant:
gyurmé ku yi ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of the immutable enlightened body;
gakmé sung gi ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of unceasing speech;
trulmé tuk kyi ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of an undeluded mind;
yönten rekong ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of enlightened qualities that fulfill wishes;
trinlé drodul ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of the enlightened activities that tame beings;
chimé tsé yi ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of immortality;
dzemé nor gyi ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the accomplishment of abundant wealth;
tünmong yishyin ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the common accomplishment of wish-fulfilment;
lamé chok gi ngödrub tsal du sol
Bestow the supreme and unsurpassable accomplishment, I pray!
Add the following to the end of the root mantra:
kaya waka tsitta siddhi pala ho
...kāya vāka citta siddhi phala ho
The primordial wisdom torma dissolves into you. Visualize that the samayasattva dissolves into
desirable nectar. Enjoy the accomplished substances of the torma and the food. If enacting
the principal conferral of empowerment, then perform it prior to enjoying the feast.
3. Mending Impairments and Breakages
Relying upon the guru Vajrasattva on the crown of your head, recite the hundred-syllable mantra
as many times as possible and ask for forgiveness.
Dissolution
lama dorjé sempa nyi
Guru Vajrasattva
gyepa chenpö rang la tim
Joyfully dissolves into me.
rang yang künshyi machöpé
Again, I rest in the unfabricated ground
ngang la yi ni dzinpadral
That is free from mental fixation,
namdak trödral chö kyi ku
The completely pure dharmakāya free from elaboration.
Thus, the entire retinue of the maṇḍala dissolves into the guru at the crown of the head, which
then dissolves into oneself. Rest in the indivisible wisdom mind beyond concepts and free
from elaboration.
4. Accomplishing the Sets of Activities
This may be understood from the pith instructions of the eight divisions as they are given in
the concise manual.
5. Holding the Philosophical View
This path alone is certainly the root of all accomplishments, so have confidence in it.
6. Making Aspirations
emaho
Emaho!
dak gi drowa kün döndu
For the sake of all beings,
kalpa pakmé tsünché né
For unfathomable eons
tama dantar tuk gi bar
Up to this final moment,
dak gi lü ngak yi sum gyi
I have meditated upon, accomplished, offered, and praised
lama kyechok yidam lha
The supreme gurus, deities,
sangye changsem daki tsok
Buddhas, bodhisattvas, and ḍākinīs
gom drub chö ching töpa dang
With my body, speech, and mind.
dri lak chang shing kün chub gyi
I have composed, read, and retained their literature, coming to full comprehension.
ta gong lasok gé chepé
May the results of such virtuous actions of the view, wisdom mind, and so forth
drebu dü dir min gyur né
Come to fruition right here and now!
künkhyen yeshe chok tob shok
May I attain the supreme primordial wisdom of omniscience!

shyenyang chok chu dü sum gyi
Furthermore, may the enlightened aspirations of the gurus
lamé tukgong rabdzok shing
Of all three times and ten directions be fulfilled!
dü sum pamé na drangpé
May all sentient beings of the six transient states without exception,
dro druk semchen malüpa
Especially my fathers and mothers of the past, present, and future,
lama chok gi jezung né
Be cared for by the supreme guru!
yangdak dorjé dön tok shok
May all realize the completely pure indestructible meaning!
6.1. Concluding Aspirations
shejé dön la mamongpé
May there be the auspiciousness of the sacred gurus, who
lama dampé tashi shok
Have no confusion regarding the truth of knowable objects!
gangla sampé dön drubpé
May there be auspiciousness of the supreme attainment, which
döndrub chok gi tashi shok
Accomplishes the purpose of whatever comes to mind!
ku sung tuk kyi bhaga né
May there be the auspiciousness of mahāmudrā, which arises
chakgya chenpö tashi shok
From the matrix of the enlightened body, speech, and mind!
Create virtue and goodness through reciting such prayers of auspiciousness extensively.

This is the method of the swift, supreme path that accomplishes the guru,The supreme form of
the all-pervading victorious one. Those who wish to have good fortune in this life or the
next Must rely upon this marvelous essence of all skillful means.
It is the most exquisite practice of all that accomplishes the enlightened mind of Orgyen Lama.The
main meditational practice text of The Secret Embodiment and The supplemental Eight
Chapters have been conveniently combined and Arranged for easy engagement in melodious chanting,
meditation, recitation, and ritual.
Many previous scholars, adepts, and excellent onesMade various concise and extensive [practices];
However, as I cannot resist expressing my own limited, one-sided view,I [have composed
this text] with a pure, exceptional intention.
Whatever merit and virtue I have attained through this, I dedicate so that sentient beings pervading
space May enter the path of union that avoids the two extremes of existence and peace,
saṃsāra and nirvāṇa, And attain the stage of Guru Orgyen.

For this, The Brilliant Essence: The Ritual Manual for the Secret Embodiment of the Guru, the
root text of The Secret Embodiment and the supplemental Eight Chapters and other related
things have been combined to allow for easy engagement in melodious chanting, meditation,
and ritual. At Orgyen Mindröling Rigdzin Düpé Monastery, when establishing the traditions
of presenting elaborate offerings on the tenth day, the lazy Gyurmé Dorjé arranged [this
material] and the monks Losal Gyatso and Orgyen Paljor were the scribes. Sarvadā Maṅgalam!

| Translated by Ryan Jacobson, Tom Greensmith and Tenzin Choephel, 2021. With many thanks to
Dr. Cathy Cantwell for her guidance concerning The Eight Chapters mentioned in the text.

Sources: 'jam mgon kong sprul blo gros mtha' yas. “gsang 'dus bla ma'i las byang snying po rab
gsal/”. In rin chen gter mdzod chen mo. 111 vols. Paro: Ngodrup and Sherab Drimay, 1976–1980.
BDRC W20578 vol. 7: 461–498
"bla ma gsang ba 'dus pa" in blo gros mtha' yas. rin chen gter mdzod chen mo/. 70 vols. New
Delhi: Shechen Publications, 2007–2008 (BDRC W1KG14). Vol. 6: 1–32

Secondary Literature
Cantwell, Cathy. “The Formative Impact of Guru Chöwang’s (gu ru chos kyi dbang phyug, 1212-1270)
Secret Embodiment of the Lama (bla ma gsang ’dus) on the Padmasambhava Ritual Traditions,”
in About Padmasambhava: Historical Narratives and Later Transformations of Guru Rinpoche,
ed. Geoffrey Samuel and Jamyang Oliphant of Rossie (Switzerland: Garuda Verlag, 2020),
123-145.

Version: 1.2-20220103
↑ There has not been any in-depth research on Guru Chöwang’s Eight-Chapter Ritual Manual. Dr.
Cantwell presents introductory research seen here: Cathy Cantwell, “The Formative Impact
of Guru Chöwang’s (gu ru chos kyi dbang phyug, 1212-1270) Secret Embodiment of the Lama (bla
ma gsang ’dus) on the Padmasambhava Ritual Traditions.” In About Padmasambhava: Historical
Narratives and Later Transformations of Guru Rinpoche, edited by Geoffrey Samuel and
Jamyang Oliphant of Rossie (Switzerland: Garuda Verlag, 2020), 130, n. 126 and 134, n. 135.