The Single-Page Practice of the Guru of Great Bliss
revealed by Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa

rangrig dewa chenpor chaktsal lo
Homage to self-aware great bliss!

rangnyi wangchen yabyum gompa yi
I visualize myself as the Mighty One1 with consort.
tukkar tsitta gyen la tenpa ni
The heart within my chest points upwards,
pema dab gyé chungzé kha jé nang
As an eight-petalled lotus, slightly open.
kündzob changsem ngowo dawé teng
Inside, upon a moon disc, the essence of relative bodhicitta,
rangrig dewa chenpo karsal dang
Rests my self-awareness, the Guru of Great Bliss:
shyön tsul ku sha gyé shing lhün chakpa
With a radiant white complexion, he is youthful, corpulent, and impressive.
sang gö pöka chögö marpo dang
He wears the secret gown, a wide-sleeved robe, a red Dharma robe,
ber cham pen shyamar po lhubpar sol
A cloak, and a red paṇḍita hat.
dewé kyiltrung chak nyi nyamshyak teng
He sits in blissful posture, and upon his two hands in equipoise,
dekyong nö du bam yikkar mar dang
Is a bliss-sustaining skull-cup, within which the reddish-white syllable baṃ glows.
dé lé dütsi gyün bab nö nang kheng
Nectar oozes from the syllable,
deyang kha lü tsitté nang gang sam
Filling the skull-cup and causing it to overflow and enter my heart.
While gazing into great bliss, recite:
om guru maha sukha siddhi hung
oṃ guru-mahā-sukha siddhi hūṃ
At the end of the session, chant this yearning song of devotion:
dak gi lama guru rinpoche
O Guru Rinpoche, my teacher!
danta pema ö kyi shying na shyuk
While you now reside in the Lotus Light pure land,
bö bang semchen dukngal gyi dungwé
Your Tibetan subjects and other beings are wracked with suffering—
khyé kyi tukjé nyimé tangnyom sam
Is your compassion as indifferent as the sun?
ré tö kyowé nying né khyö dren né
As we remember you with deep sadness and longing,
güpé tsechik soldeb mi sen ching
If you do not listen to our prayers of wholehearted devotion,
deden dak sok semchen mi dren na
If you fail to guide sentient beings including those of us with faith—
yé sangyé pé göpa chishyik chi
What is the use of being primordially awakened?
dakchak lü né dungwé chima truk
Our bodies tremble as we shed tears of distress,
ngak ni soldeb o dö lhang lhang bö
With our speech we pray, calling out with a piercing cry.
yi ni tsechik khyö kyi namtar dren
While with focused minds, we recall your liberating life story.
dzutrul lok shyin guru né dir jön
Like a miracle, quick as lightning, Guru, come to this place!
deshek könchok tsawa nam sum gyi
Encircling you like billowing rainclouds
khor tsok chartrin tibpa tar chepé
Are the awakened Three Jewels and Three Roots.
pa yi tukjé zik shik pema jung
Our father, Padmasambhava, look upon us with compassion!
bu la jingyi lob shik ngödrub tsol
Bestow blessings and siddhis on us, your children!
Whenever this is uttered, I myself will arrive instantly And actually bless all those present,
And I vow that a sign of this will appear to each and every one of you.
The statue of the Guru of Great Bliss Together with this instruction, my own heart blood, Will
be found in the future by Lhasey and his consort. At that time, when the guardian of this
treasure, who dwells on the tenth bhūmi,Resides at Tanglha and Namkhé Tso,An emanation
of myself, Samantabhadra,Will appear in the Wood Tiger year as a protector of beings. His
five places will bear five marks, his cheeks Will be adorned by a pattern of lotuses, on his
forehead he will bear the swirl of bliss,At his navel he will have a dark red mole, and
he will wear a tiger-skin skirt. By encountering this sacred statue and this secret teaching,
This great being will make the teachings spread far and wide Within the realm of this
vast open land.

Samaya seal! Khataṃ! Guhya! Concealment seal!

The great incarnated treasure-revealer, Chokgyur Dechen Lingpa, revealed this practice at Lhogyü
Namkha Dzö in Dokham. It was gradually deciphered from the yellow parchment of the five
amṛtas by the omniscient lord of victors himself and transcribed accordingly by his disciple
Pema Garwang Lodrö Tayé in the celestial palace of Okmin Tsurpu.

| Translated by Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (Laura Dainty, Stefan Mang and Peter Woods) and
edited by Libby Hogg, 2020. First published on Lotsawa House, 2021

Version: 1.1-20211123
↑ Hayagrīva.