A Brief Practice for Paying Homage and Making Offerings to the Buddha together with his retinue
of Arhats
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

om svasti
Oṃ svasti!
Should you wish to pay homage and make offerings and prayers to the Buddha and the sixteen sthaviras,
prepare some offerings, and arrange them cleanly and beautifully before an image
of Buddha Śākyamuni and his retinue. If this is not possible, the practice may be done as
a visualization.
Refuge and Bodhicitta
sangye chö dang tsok kyi chok nam la
In the Buddha, the Dharma and the Supreme Assembly,
changchub bardu dak ni kyab su chi
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
dak gi jinsok gyipé sönam kyi
Through the merit of practising generosity and so on,
dro la pen chir sangye drubpar shok
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of beings!
Repeat this verse three times
Blessing the Environment
kyabné könchok sum gyi denpa dang
By the truth of the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha, the objects of refuge,
gyalwa sé ché nam kyi jinlab dang
The blessings of all the victorious ones and their bodhisattva heirs,
tsok nyi ngatang chöying dak tob kyi
The power of the two accumulations and the purity and strength of the dharmadhātu,
nöchü dechen shying gi köpé ü
May the outer environment and its inhabitants become those of the blissful paradise of Sukhāvatī,
with, in its centre,
yitrok norbü shyalmé khang chenpor
A great celestial palace of precious gems, stunning to behold,
rinchen sengtri pé dé den chok dang
Inside which is a jewelled lion throne with lotus and moon-disc seats—
ngö sham zung rik mö tob kyi trulpé
Here and now, may I experience this pure realm filled with clouds of actual offerings,
chötrin gyatsö gang shying chö gyur chik
And those created through the power of mantras, awareness and aspiration!
With this, the place and offerings are all blessed.
Invocation
Then, focusing your aspiration one-pointedly, recite the following:
laktil tar nyam rinchen gyi trepa
The ground is smooth like the palm of the hand, and bedecked with jewels.
jönshing chu tsö gyenpé sashyi ü
It is adorned with wish-granting trees, rivers and lakes. In its centre,
rinchen lé drub dru shyi go shyipa
In the jewelled palace with its four sides and four doors,
pema nyidé gyenpé den tengdu
Upon seats of lotus, sun and moon,
tukjé tsöpé dü kyi dulja nam
Is the compassionate protector of beings, the one who sets
namdrol lam la gödzé drowé gön
The beings of these troubled times on the path to liberation,
tubpa chok dang neten chenpo nam
The supreme Śākyamuni together with the great sthaviras—
khor dang chepa né dir shek su sol
Come now to this place together with your retinues, we pray!
When doing the practice more elaborately, longer verses of praise and offering to the arhats,
either in verse or prose, can be done here. If you are doing the concise version then simply
continue with:
tabkhé tukjé shakyé rik su trung
Through skilful means and compassion, you were born in the Śākya clan,
shyen gyi mitub dü kyi pung jompa
And, utterly invincible, you overcame the forces of Māra,
ser gyi lhünpo tabur jipé ku
Your form resplendent like a mountain of burnished gold—
shakyé gyalpö shyab la chaktsal lo
King of the Śākyas, at your feet I bow!

tubpé kagö tenpé gyaltsen dzin
You who were instructed by the Buddha to uphold the victory banner of the teachings:
yenlakjung dang mapam naknané
Aṅgaja, Ajita and Vanavāsin,
düden dorjé möbu zangpo dang
Kālika, Vajrīputra and Śrībhadra,
serbé'u bharadhaja serchen chok
Kanakavatsa and sublime Kanakabhāradvāja,
pakpa bakula dang drachen dzin
The noble Bakula and Rāhula,
lamtren bharadhaja sönyom len
Kṣudrapanthaka and Piṇḍola Bhāradvāja,
lamten lüdé bejé michepa
Panthaka, Nāgasena, Gopaka and Abhedya,
genyen dharmata dang gyalchen shyi
Upāsaka Dharmatāla and the Four Great Kings,
khor dang chepa shyab kyi pemo la
Together with all your retinues—at your lotus feet,
chaktsal kyab chi nying né solwa deb
I prostrate, taking refuge and offering heartfelt prayers!

sashyi pö chü juk shing metok tram
The ground is purified with scented water and strewn with flowers;
rirab ling shyi nyidé gyenpa di
It is adorned with Sumeru, the four continents and the sun and moon:
sangye shying du mik té pulwa yi
Thinking of it as the blessed buddha-fields, I offer it.
dro kün namdak shying la chöpar shok
By virtue of this offering, may all beings enjoy the happiness of those pure realms.

ngö sham zung rik mö tob kyi trulpé
Both actual offerings and those created through the power of mantras, awareness and aspiration,
chö tsok kün bul diktung tamché shak
All these I offer; I confess all my harmful acts and downfalls;
gé la yirang kul shying solwa deb
I rejoice in all that is virtuous, and request and beseech you!
di tsön gewa changchub chenpor ngo
All this virtue, I dedicate towards great enlightenment!
With this, perform the seven-branch offering. If you are an ordained monk or nun, and you need
to do the practices of Sojong or Düdren, they can be done here.
chomden dendzom chenpo gong su sol
Great conquerors and throne holders, please think of us!
tubwang neten pakpé tsok nam kyi
Lord of sages and gathering of noble sthaviras,
tsen chok tö dang dren jö chakchö tü
By the power of hearing, thinking of, and repeating your excellent names, and paying homage
and making offerings to you,
dakchak lasok semchen gang dang gang
For us and all other beings, whosoever and wheresoever they may be,
nekab tartuk mitün chok kün shyi
May all temporary and ultimate disharmony be pacified!
dekyi chöden paljor rabtu pel
And may happiness, virtue, glory and prosperity increase!

tek chok geweshé kyi jezung né
Bless us, so that we may follow the spiritual teachers of the supreme vehicle,
sung gi dütsi tsowar jingyi lob
And always be sustained by the nectar of their teachings!
tsultrim dak ching tö sam gompar den
Bless us to maintain pure discipline and engage in study, reflection and meditation,
ngepar jung dang changchub sem nyi jong
So we may train perfectly in renunciation and twofold bodhicitta,
taktu shyenpen chö lé miyelwé
And without ever neglecting activity for the benefit of others,
namkhyen gopang tobpar jingyi lob
Attain the level of perfect omniscience!

gyalten drimé chok chur dar shying gyé
May the faultless teaching of the Buddha flourish and spread in all directions!
tendzin chok nam shyabpé kal gyar ten
May the supreme holders of the teachings remain for hundreds of kalpas!
jikten gelek chenpö khyabpa dang
May virtue and excellence pervade throughout the world!
dön nyi lhün gyi drubpé tashi shok
And may our own and others’ benefit be spontaneously accomplished!
Recite this prayer and then further adorn the practice with verses of auspiciousness.

The carefree Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo composed this prayer for the benefit of those with faith.
May it be accomplished!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2007